
========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 1 ==========



========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 2 ==========

This PDF is best viewed with multiple pages
WelCome to tHe DisTemPerVerSe
A BriEf Timeline of tHe Virus
What YoU NeEd To Know
How To PlaY DisTemPer
CharacTer SheEt OverViEw
CreAtinG a CharacTer
BacKsTory GeneratiOn pRocesS
The BalLad of PesKy LaRuE
SkilLs, PregenS & ParadigMs
ParadigM LisT
WeAponS & EquIpMenT
InTeracTinG WitH OtHerS
ComBat
ComBat AcTiOnS
Now What?
Rules ReferenCe
BlanK CharacTer SheEt
Page 1.
Page 2.
Page 6.
Page 8.
Page 12.
Page 14.
Page 15.
Page 22.
Page 24.
Page 26.
Page 28.
Page 30.
Page 32.
Page 34.
Page 37.
Page 38.
Page 40.
CREDITS V0.8.531
Game Design, Writing & Layout: Tony Bushell
Artwork: Nenad Cviticanin, Hernán González, Carlos Angeli
Photo Credits: Unsplash, Pixabay, Pexels
Play-Testers & Other Helpers:
Matt Rowe (GrumpyBattersby), Jonathon Canniff (GrumpsterFier), 
Gary Johnson (ZeroTheory), Meenia, Jeff Garland, Corey Egan, 
Gerd Ellsmore, Eoin O’Donnell, Eliot Savarese, Gordon Bissell, 
John Jessop & The Playtest Hub, 
Quincy, Cam, Seth & The Order of Janus 
Special Thanks: My wife & kids for letting me get this 
song out of my head and Matt Rowe, my co-conspirator
1
WHAT IS DISTEMPER?
Have you ever been watching a movie or TV show, or 
reading a novel or comic-book, and found yourself 
thinking: “I wouldn’t have done that. I would have done 
something different. Something better. Something 
smarter than that”? 
This is your opportunity to test that theory.
Distemper is a Tabletop Role-Playing Game (TTRPG) 
wherein a group of 3-6 players collectively tell the story 
of survivors making their way in the aftermath of a 
virus that has obliterated most of humanity. 
Alone, save for each other and a handful of dice, they 
are at the center of an unfolding narrative and together 
they will create an interactive, improvised, and 
collaborative storyline. 
The world they find themselves in is hard and fractured. 
Each new day brings risks, threats, opportunities, and 
terrors that the group of players must navigate to 
ensure their characters survive. And, if they can do 
that, perhaps they might even be able to figure out 
how to thrive.
Unlike many traditional games, there are no winners or 
losers in Distemper which unfolds cooperatively 
between the players and the Game Moderator, who acts 
as the referee, or director. Together, the group define 
the challenges and outcomes in order to tell a story 
that is exciting, enjoyable, fulfilling, memorable, and 
unique to that group.
With the exception of players and several 6-sided dice, 
this quickstart provides everything a group needs to 
start playing. It covers character creation, how to 
interpret dice rolls, how to make ability and skill checks, 
the basics of social interactions, and how to take part in 
combat. 
To accompany this guide and put those rules into 
practice, there is a quickstart adventure, Chased, which 
guides a group through several encounters that will 
teach them, on the fly, how to play and moderate the 
game, as well as providing plot hooks to build a larger 
campaign from. 
For players wanting an even simpler experience, there is 
a single-scene encounter called Empty that walks 
players through the very basics of dice checks, First
Impressions, Gut Instincts, Negotiations and 
finally Combat. 
Many of the rules and concepts in this booklet are 
expanded on in greater depth in the Distemper Core 
Rulebook which is available for download, along with 
both Empty and Chased, and a variety of other game 
resources, from DistemperVerse.com. 
So, grab some friends, some scraps of paper, and a 
handful of dice as you prepare to tell some collaborative 
stories where your very survival is at stake in a dark, 
dangerous world in which every move may be your last.
THE DISTEMPERVERSE
More than just this Tabletop Roleplaying Game that you 
are reading, Distemper is also a series of comic-book 
stories in which the stories provide an ongoing and 
constantly developing backdrop to the game. 
Together, the stories told globally in the comic book 
combine with the stories told locally via the RPG to create 
the DistemperVerse, a shared repository of stories that 
are both told to and, perhaps more importantly, by the 
players. 
GMs and their groups are encouraged to take elements 
from the comics to use in their own games or even as 
campaign settings, and they are encouraged to submit the 
stories they collectively tell via our website and social 
media so that these stories may be weaved into the 
developing tapestry of stories that go to make up the 
ever-evolving gameworld. 
Instructions on how to submit your own stories, can be 
found at www.DistemperVerse.com.
WHO IS DISTEMPER FOR?
Distemper is very much at the realistic end of the TTRPG 
spectrum. In this world there are no zombies, no aliens, no 
vampires, and no mutants. There are no healing potions, no 
wizards, no orcs, elves, or goblins, and most definitely no 
dragons. 
There is just the gnawing cold, biting hunger and, scariest of 
all, the threat of other, desperate people who care more 
about their own survival than they do about yours. 
Distemper is a game for people that would prefer to explore 
a post-apocalyptic version of the world we inhabit today, 
rather than a castle filled with the undead. 
This is a reality where players will have to track how many 
bullets they have and how much food and water is in their 
backpack, and where it can take days or weeks to heal as a 
result of the brutally realistic and unforgiving combat system. 
Ammunition is more meaningful than gold and finding a 
cache of weapons could significantly change the course of 
the future for the group and their NPC followers.
Distemper is a game for people who are as interested in 
negotiating as they are shooting, and for whom the idea of 
building a community, a religious sect or even a fledgling 
army and seizing control of a region of territory is more 
compelling than slaying a dragon. It is for those to whom 
building a legacy in this version of today’s world ultimately 
has more long-term appeal than clearing out yet another 
dungeon.
The world of Distemper will appeal to fans of The Road, 
Black Summer & The Walking Dead (with no Walking Dead), 
and anyone who enjoys post-apocalyptic, Dystopian worlds 
where simply surviving is a struggle.


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 3 ==========

JANUARY 21ST
The BBC World Service runs the 
first news story about H724. 
This recently identified virus is 
initially believed to be a mutation of 
the common flu and has infected an 
estimated 100 million people 
worldwide - more than Tuberculosis 
or HIV.
Further research reveals that the 
virus shares characteristics with 
canine distemper, which is usually 
only found in dogs. 
Although H724 appears to be highly 
contagious, it also seems to be 
largely benign, with the most 
obvious symptom being a relentless 
cough. 
People are reminded to practice 
good hygiene, to cover their mouths 
when coughing or sneezing, and to 
avoid contact with those who 
appear sick. 
MARCH 2ND
Conspiracy theories catch the 
world over, like gasoline-soaked 
wildfires. 
The virus had been created in a 
lab. This was a shadow cabal plot 
to depopulate the world. This was 
the rise of a new world order. Our 
Alien overlords were finally here.
This was The Rapture.
Regardless of its origin, it quickly 
becomes obvious that this 
widespread sickness has the 
potential to wreck the global 
economy. 
FEBRUARY 24TH
A British Reuters correspondent 
disappears shortly after breaking a 
story from within Chechnya, where 
multiple provinces are dealing with 
a highly contagious virus that the 
government seems to be 
struggling to control.
Multiple doctors who treated those 
affected with the virus were 
rounded up and arrested, and the 
correspondent reported that no 
one would even speculate why. 
Chechen officials initially deny the 
story while simultaneously using 
the military to quarantine its three 
most heavily populated cities. 
Within days of the correspondent 
going missing, the entire country is 
in lock down.
MARCH 5TH
An elderly man in Chile with a 
relentless cough dies while in the 
middle of a hacking fit. 
An autopsy confirms that in 
addition to multiple underlying 
comorbidities, he had all the 
symptoms of H724. 
It was noted than in his last 
moments, he lunged for the 
medical staff in what they 
perceived as an aggressive and 
hostile manner, although he 
lacked the vitality to actually do 
anyone harm.
This was the first recorded death 
attributed to the Distemper and, 
for many, truly marked the 
beginning of the Dog Flu 
pandemic.
MARcH 9Th
With no explanation to the 
outside world, the Russian 
Federation closes all borders 
and restricts international and 
domestic travel.
It makes no difference. Elvis 
has already left the building and 
the virus is on the move.
MARCH 20TH
The World Health Organization 
announces that research indicates 
that H724 has a mortality rate in 
line with the seasonal flu. 
They reiterate the need for good 
hygiene to prevent transmission. 
MARcH 28Th
Based on startling new data, 
the World Health Organization 
announces that H724 has 
mutated and is now believed 
to be airborne. 
The mortality rate is revised 
upward to a staggering 7% 
and H724-B is officially 
declared as a pandemic.
APRIL 2ND
Face masks become an increasingly 
common sight. Although there is no 
evidence that they help prevent 
transmission, there is also no 
evidence that they don’t, and 
manufacturers worldwide step up 
production to meet demand.
Despite multiple pandemics in years 
past, the aggressively rapid and 
virulent spread of the Distemper still 
takes most governments by 
surprise. Their responses are 
uniformly slow, disorganized, and 
ineffective. 
Many authorities try to play the 
sickness down as little more than a 
seasonal flu or even a political hoax, 
which further delays action.
APrIL 19Th
The spread of the virus intensifies 
and the infected die at an 
exponential rate. 
Although nations are now forced to 
act, it isn’t until almost a month 
after WHO declared a pandemic 
that all international commercial 
flights are suspended. 
The International Monetary Fund 
reports that a global recession is 
inevitable, with multiple, vital 
supply chains already impacted. 
This rapidly leads to hyper-inflation 
across the globe, which in turn 
causes civil unrest on a scale that 
had previously been unimaginable.
Widespread rioting and looting are 
rampant with authorities using 
increasing levels of force to 
maintain order. 
The mass starvation only ever 
seen in poorer nations would soon 
hit every country on the planet.
APRIL 26TH
Despite the resources now being 
thrown at medical research from 
around the world, testing is still 
unreliable.
Asymptomatic carriers remain 
undetectable and only the sick 
test as being infected. This leads 
health care professionals to 
mistakenly clear people carrying 
the virus, enabling its unchecked 
spread.
MAY 14TH
Within a week of beginning their 
research, Berglund’s team advises 
WHO of a new mutation, H724-C, 
which they now believe to be 
zoonotic. 
There are clear indicators that dogs 
can transmit H724-C to humans 
and the media quickly dub it the 
Dog Flu after reports of several 
infected patients’ pets exhibiting 
similar symptoms.
Berglund’s team note that the dogs 
become wildly aggressive at the 
end, often attacking (and thereby 
transmitting) the disease to their 
owners and vets.
JUNE 14TH
Stories emerge of the mass 
extermination of dogs and 
pigeons and various other 
animals around the world.
Various EU member states 
secretly start culling herds of 
livestock for reasons 
unknown. Most countries have 
closed their borders in a futile 
attempt to slow the spread of 
the infection.
JULY 14TH
With reliable rapid testing kits 
now in production, South Korea 
conducts mandatory, nationwide 
screening. 
The infected (along with any one 
even suspected of having been 
exposed) are moved into 
“survival camps.”
South Korean is quickly followed 
by many other countries, and 
survival camps appear around 
the globe.
MAY 21ST
Further testing shows pigeons 
might also be carriers of the 
virus, and multiple countries 
began culls of both animals. 
Many nations mandate their 
citizens voluntarily surrender 
all dogs for forced euthanasia. 
It doesn’t go well for either 
side.
MAY 28TH
As additional data becomes 
available, the mortality rate 
of H724-C is again revised 
upwards, this time to an 
bewildering 19%. 
JUNE 5TH
Panic sets in worldwide as people 
begin to question how much their 
governments and leaders are 
actually able to do to protect them in 
the face of no known containment 
method, let alone a vaccine. 
It slowly starts to sink in for many 
that while their government can tax 
them, when they really need help, it 
can’t protect them. 
This leads to a season of worldwide 
riots that cause levels of destruction 
through civil unrest that burn down 
whole nations.
There is nothing left to loot by this 
point and people turn their anger to 
destroying public buildings.
JUNE 28TH
Unable to cope with so many 
bodies, multiple countries dump 
their dead into mass graves that 
are visible from space. 
Eventually there’s no one left to 
bury or even move the dead and 
corpses line the streets the 
world over.
JULY 22ND
Another wave of riots swell 
throughout Europe and North 
America as hordes of scared 
and starving people are pitted 
against each other in a 
desperate struggle to stay 
alive.
With so few active police, 
many governments call in what 
remains of the military to quell 
disturbances. 
With no one to clean up, the 
corpses are left where they 
fall, spreading disease.
MAY 8TH
Data provided by a 
German research institute 
enables a breakthrough in 
the development of rapid 
testing capabilities and 
Berglund shares his 
cautious optimism at a 
press conference.
MAY 3RD
With millions already dead 
worldwide and untold millions 
more infected, a coalition of 
scientists from 14 nations led by 
Dr. Alex Berglund, a renowned 
Swedish epidemiologist, begins 
researching the development of 
effective testing in hopes of 
slowing down the spread. 


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 4 ==========

AUGUST 2ND
The US is quickly followed 
into Martial Law by most 
of the EU, Canada, and 
Australia.
Governments the world 
over use what limited 
forces they have left in a 
vain attempt to retain 
order. 
AUGUST 6TH
Protests had long ago 
given way to riots and 
with diminishing 
manpower, governments 
became unable to 
enforce Martial Law.
This, in turn, signals the 
end of any authorized 
rule in many countries, 
as there are no officially 
sanctioned forces still 
available for civil control.
AUGUST 27TH
A pair of nuclear explosion in 
Finland create a localized 
nuclear winter. 
Although no one is ever sure 
precisely what caused it, the 
event appears to trigger total 
societal breakdown in 
neighboring Sweden and 
within days of losing its 
power-grid, the country is 
plunged into darkness.
Soon there are multiple, 
independent reports of 
widespread brutality and 
horror, in addition to 
unconfirmed reports of 
cannibalism. 
This in turn drives further riots 
throughout Europe as terrified 
people demand desperate 
action from paralyzed 
governments who are 
hanging on by their fingertips.
JULY 24TH
The fabric of society 
worldwide continues to 
inexorably unravel as 
summer progresses 
and the Distemper kills 
more people than the 
Spanish Flu.
JULY 29TH
Eventually there’s no one 
left to bury or even move 
the dead and they begin to 
line the streets. 
China begins what it calls 
“Central Corpse Disposal.” 
The fires can be reportedly 
seen from Taiwan.
AUGUST 4TH
Berglund’s research team 
are no closer to any kind 
of breakthrough.
The UK begins human 
experimentation to test a 
possible vaccine and 
although there is some 
condemnation, it is 
lukewarm and largely 
symbolic.
Within days, the UN, 
WHO, and the FDA 
remove all drug research 
safeguards.
AUGUST 14TH
Berglund’s research 
team are no closer to any 
kind of breakthrough 
when the UK begins 
human experimentation 
to test a possible 
vaccine. 
Although there is some 
condemnation, it is 
lukewarm and largely 
symbolic as the UN, 
W.H.O., and the FDA 
remove all drug research 
safeguards soon 
thereafter.
JULY 28TH
With the death toll 
constantly rising, 
healthcare services 
are overwhelmed and 
begin to break down.
 The virus is 
indiscriminate, and 
many healthcare 
workers succumb, 
leading to a worldwide 
shortage of anyone 
qualified to help.
JULY 30TH
The CDC convinces the US 
government to place Rhode 
Island, parts of California, 
and New York City under 
quarantine.
The bridges that connect 
Manhattan to the outside 
world are destroyed, cutting 
the residents off and 
leaving them to die. 
The blow-back from these 
actions creates civil unrest 
on a never before seen 
scale. 
The government responds 
by implementing Martial 
Law across the United 
States.
AUGUST 30TH
News reports are a 
continual and horrific 
song of lament to this 
inexorably unfolding 
global catastrophe until 
eventually, little by little, 
station by station, 
country by country, the 
news reports stop. 
NOVEMBER 9TH
Barely 7 months after it 
began, the Dog Flu has wiped 
out more than 50% of 
humanity and what is left is 
frightened, hungry, and 
scattered. 
Centralized services are no 
longer being provided and, 
one after another, things just 
stopped working. 
All anyone has left to rely on 
by this point is themselves. 
SEPTEMBER 22ND
Normal life has ceased to exist 
anywhere. 
Nationwide lock-downs and food 
shortages led to uncontrollable 
riots around the globe. 
With no one left to police or 
provide order, many cities and 
provinces throughout the world 
become “No Go” areas for anyone 
but the locals. 
Humanity begins a slow and 
painful descent back into 
aggressive tribalism.
OCTOBER 10TH
The rest of the world quickly 
follows Europe into abject 
chaos, as national and local 
governments fail across the 
planet.
DECEMBER 25TH
87% of the population of earth is 
gone and it is small consolation 
that anyone who was going to 
die is already dead.
Just over one billion people 
remain alive, scattered, cold, 
hungry, and scared.
Ho, Ho, Ho, Humanity.
SEPTEMBER 9TH
Healthcare is nonexistent in most 
parts of the world. Corpse disposal 
has been replaced by ever-
growing piles of burning corpses.
Cities begin to catch fire and there 
are no emergency services left to 
respond. 
OCTOBER 6TH
Isolated in a facility in 
Belgium, Berglund’s 
research team have 
introduced synthetic genes 
into H724 and believe they 
have line of sight to a 
vaccine.
However, it won’t come fast 
enough to stop Europe from 
falling into anarchy as the 
last remaining governments 
topple in quick succession. 
JANUARY
Even though the threat of the virus 
seems to be passing and while coughs 
and runny noses can still get people shot, 
things are leveling out. 
However, as wide-scale communications 
have long since broken down and with no 
functioning central government to protect 
and provide for them, it is left to whoever 
remains to rebuild. 
People are on their own. 
No one knows for sure what happened, 
the state of the world, or who is left. 
All anyone knows with any certainty any 
more is that they have to eat and stay 
warm and will do whatever they need to 
do in order to make that happen.
All anyone has left to rely on by this point 
is themselves. 
Humanity may have been saved but 
civilization certainly hasn’t been. 


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 5 ==========

THE WORLD IS ADRIFT
There are no central authorities left, 
no governments, no military, no 
supply-chain, and next to no loyalty 
remains for anyone outside of your 
family or clan. 
Enough people with enough weapons 
can lay claim to anything - or 
anywhere - they feel entitled to, 
unless someone is willing to try and 
stop them. 
In a splintered country where 
territorial maps are being rewritten at 
a whim, you are going to have to 
navigate tribal lines and continually 
shifting threats as you look for your 
own place of safety. Or maybe you will 
decide to just keep moving, dealing 
with threats as they arise instead of 
making yourself a sitting target.
THE WORLD AROUND YOU
Distemper is set one year after the apex of the outbreak of 
H724 - also referred to as the Dog Flu or the Distemper - 
a deadly and contagious form of canine distemper that killed 
more than 6 billion people in less than a year. 
Nowhere and no one was safe. Those who hadn’t been 
stricken down by the Distemper, who weren’t killed in the 
food riots that followed as society collapsed, who hadn’t 
starved in the ensuing famines or gotten themselves 
murdered for the scraps of food in their hands, are now 
faced with figuring out their ongoing survival. 
The fear of the virus is still very real and strong enough to 
get people with a runny nose killed without warning, but 
more immediate threats and priorities - like food, shelter, and 
safety - have taken precedence. 
Some elements of society are attempting to knit themselves 
back together whilst others are pulling at the frayed edges. 
Many cities - those that aren’t still burning, at least - have 
devolved into anarchic and chaotic hellholes, whilst others 
strive to shine as sanctuaries and beacons of hope, even if 
no one is really sure who they can trust any more.
Everything anyone knew has changed and people are having 
to do ugly things to survive. As players, you will be faced 
with ethical choices that test your morality and have long-
term impacts on gameplay. 
The Rule of Law has been replaced with the Rule of the Gun, 
and for each instance of people working together to fulfill the 
basic needs of food and safety, someone, somewhere, is 
plotting to take it away from them. If you have something of 
value, you need to be prepared to fight to keep it and if 
someone else has something that you want or need, then 
you may have some interesting choices to make.
After all, when starvation is a very real prospect, people 
quickly reevaluate priorities.
SURVIVAL WILL BE HARD
Although parts of the electrical grid remain 
intact, circuits and relays continue to fail, 
leaving swaths of the country with no 
power and no clean water. Staying warm 
and dry is as important as staying fed and 
you are going to face continual challenges 
that range from other humans, to wildlife, 
to the environment itself - and you will 
need to solve them all to stay alive.
In addition - and possibly scariest of all - 
with more than 60 million survivors in 
North America alone, there are still many 
human threats that you need to navigate. 
These range from warlords seizing 
territory, to religious zealots reveling in the 
rapture of the end times, to bandits 
looking to take whatever they can from 
anyone that has something worth taking, 
to cannibals looking to make you their next 
meal. 
Don’t let them catch you slipping. 
RESOURCES ARE SCARCE
Things are rotting and spoiling and whatever is left of 
any value is going to be gone soon - but you still need 
to eat and drink. Whether you decide to scavenge, 
forage, hunt, or farm, securing resources will be sure 
to bring you into conflict with someone else at some 
point. 
In addition to food, you will also need to make sure 
you have the equipment you will need to survive, such 
as a tent and sleeping bag - to say nothing of a supply 
of ammunition to ensure your safety. 
Some towns and cities are further along in their 
recovery than others and have started establishing 
trade-routes with like-minded settlements. A couple of 
roadside trading posts and taverns have even 
appeared in various parts of the country, and they are 
as heavily armed and defended as anything in this 
new world.  
You are going to have to decide if you are going to 
take your chances on your own, or if you are going to 
work with - and possibly even recruit - NPCs, to 
produce a continual supply of food for you and yours. 
CIRCLING THE DRAIN
The world everyone knew is gone, along with all 
the comforts and benefits that it had previously 
brought.
Anyone who is still alive has likely had to do 
terrible things to survive, and anyone with half a 
brain knows it isn’t going to get any easier, any 
time soon. 
You will have to decide who you are willing to 
trust, and just how far that trust will extend as 
you interact with desperate people.
But, even in the dark there are sparks of hope.
Places remain where people are trying to work 
together for a brighter future. If you find these 
communities then you may want to trade, 
socialize, or simply see what is on offer. Maybe 
you’ll want to try and join them - if they’ll allow 
it - and throw in your lot with a rebuilding effort. 
You may attempt to raid the place and see what 
you can steal. You might even try and take over. 
Whatever you choose, you will have to decide 
how you deal with the strangers you encounter 
and the consequences of the choices you make.
And remember to keep your mask on.


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 6 ==========

8
MAKING A DICE CHECK
If a character is going to do something that will impact the 
narrative - such as using a skill, negotiating with an Non-
Player Character, or fighting - it requires a dice check to 
determine whether it was a success or failure. 
Making a dice check involves rolling two six-sided dice 
(written as 2d6) and then adding or subtracting various 
modifiers. If the combined total is 9 or above, then the 
attempt was a Success. 
Higher and lower scores bring additional positive or negative 
outcomes. These gradations are Dire Failure, Failure, 
Success, Wild Success, and Moments of Low and High 
Insight, and are detailed on Table 1: Outcomes.
A Dire Failure means that in 
addition to being unsuccessful 
at the given task something else 
goes wrong. Examples might be 
their gun jamming, or the 
pocket they are picking ripping 
when removing the loot.
A Wild Success means that, in 
addition to being successful at 
the task, something else works 
in the character’s favor. This 
could be opening a safe and finding not only a map that the 
character was looking for, but also a small stash of 
ammunition that is the right caliber for the gun they have.
A double-one is a Moment of Low Insight and a 
double-six is a Moment of High Insight, wherein the 
character did so astoundingly well or things went so terribly 
wrong that they learned a valuable lesson. Not only did the 
character effectively get a Dire Failure or a Wild Success, 
but they also received an Insight Dice that can be used to 
affect the outcome of future checks (See Moments of 
Insight & Insight Dice on page 10).
Outside of combat, if a player gets a Failure on a dice 
check, they cannot make the same check again unless 
circumstances have changed significantly. For example, a 
player getting a Failure when trying to pick a lock wouldn’t 
be able to try again unless he was using different tools. 
Note: Dice rolls should be reserved for checks that have a 
dramatic or narrative impact on the story. If there is no 
tension, drama, or clear outcome associated with a roll, the 
situation should be narrated instead.
NARRATING OUTCOMES
As mentioned, dice should only ever be rolled when 
there is a direct impact on the narrative that serves 
the game. Rolling to see if a character can open a 
door only matters if opening the door (or finding 
out what is behind it) moves the story along. 
As there are gradations of success and failure, it is 
important to make the results of each dice check, 
whether positive or negative, meaningful to the 
event at hand, and it is up to both the GM and the 
group to jointly define those outcomes. 
If the player Failed when trying to open the door, 
did it make enough noise to alert someone to the 
attempt? Are they now in imminent danger?
If they got a Dire Failure, did the character hurt 
themselves when flinging themselves at the door? 
If they got a Wild Success, was there something 
unexpected and welcome behind the door, such as 
ammunition or food?
If you are the GM, you should encourage the group 
to help you flesh out the results of each dice roll by 
Filling In The Gaps (see page 10) and ensure it 
furthers the narrative in both an entertaining and 
satisfying manner. 
DICE TERMS
A single, six-side dice is referred to as d6 
Multiple dice are referred to by a prefix, 
in the format 2d6 or 3d6
1d3 means rolling a d6 and dividing the result in 
half (rounding up), resulting in a score of 1-3
Making A Dice Check means rolling 2d6 and 
adding the scores together. If the total was 9 or 
above, the Dice Check was Successful.
Other scores have different results, as shown on 
Table 1: Outcomes on page 8.
9
ROLL MODIFIERS
Each dice check can have up to 3 different Modifiers that are added or subtracted to the result 
of the 2d6 roll. These modifiers are for Attributes, Skills, and Conditions, each of which has a 
range of somewhere between -3 and +5. 
Dice rolls are expressed in the following format:
2d6 +Attribute Modifier (AMod) +Skill Modifier (SMod) +Conditional Modifier (CMod)
ATTRIBUTE MODIFIERS (AMOD): 
Each character has five physical & mental attributes - Reason, 
Acumen, Physicality, Influence and Dexterity (collectively 
known as the RAPID Range). These innate qualities, capabilities 
and strengths define how adept the character is at performing certain 
actions or tasks. 
The Attribute Modifiers are detailed in Table 2: RAPID Range 
Mods.
The RAPID Range Attributes for player characters range from -2 
(Diminished) to +4 (Human Peak). Animals and machines may 
reach +5 (Superhuman). This number is also their Attribute 
Modifier (AMod) which is added to any dice roll involving that 
Attribute, such as Physicality if breaking down a door, or Reason if 
solving a puzzle.
SKILL MODIFIERS (SMOD): 
Distemper has a variety of skills with which characters may be 
familiar. Training in these various skills, or the lack thereof, can 
impact a dice check. 
Skill Modifiers (SMods) range from -3 (Inept) to +4 (Life’s 
Work), as laid out on Table 3: Skill Modifiers. 
SMods are applied to any dice check involving that skill, such as 
using Ranged Combat when firing a pistol, or using Athletics
when scaling a wall. 
SMods usually start at 0 (Untrained), although there are a number of skills that are complex 
enough to require extensive formal training or they start at -3 (Inept) and automatically incur a 
-3 SMod. These are denoted with an asterisks when written, such as Surgery*, Mechanics* or 
Demolitions*. As soon as a character has 1 level in those skills, their SMod goes from -3 
(Inept) to 1 (Beginner).
Each skill is tied to an attribute (such as Sleight of Hand being tied to Dexterity) and Attribute
Modifiers and Skill Modifiers are cumulative. This means means that someone with a 
Dexterity of 1 (and a corresponding +1 AMod) and Sleight of Hand 2 (a +2 SMod) gets a 
cumulative dice roll of 2d6 +1 +2. 
Although a lack of familiarity with a skill doesn’t stop a character from attempting to use it, the 
GM may decide that what the character is doing is sufficiently challenging that it requires a -1 
CMod, such as when trying to scale a sheer wall in the rain, or trying to calm an animal while 
under fire, as described in Conditional Modifiers below. 
CONDITIONAL MODIFIER (CMOD):
Environmental, circumstantial or karmic influences can affect dice 
checks and these Conditional Modifiers (CMods) are applied at the 
discretion of the GM or at the request of a player (see Making The 
Case on page 10).
Conditional Modifiers range from -5 (Doomed to Failure) to +5 
(Divine Intervention), and are laid out on Table 4: Conditional 
Modifiers.
Examples could range from a -2 CMod for heavy rain making a wall 
harder to climb, to a +3 CMod for having a height advantage when 
shooting at an unsuspecting enemy from behind. 
Conditional Modifiers can chain for a cumulative effect. This means 
that a character might get a +1 CMod from a specific weapon effect 
in addition to a +2 CMod from their opponent being dazed after a previous attack, and the player 
might even Make The Case for using the darkness to their advantage for an additional +1 CMod.
Whilst this would be expressed as: 2d6 + AMod + SMod +1 CMod +2 CMod +1 CMod
In order to keep gameplay simple, GMs should try and summarize all CMods as one number. In the 
example given, this would be: 2d6 +AMod +SMod +4 CMod


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 7 ==========

10
MOMENTS OF INSIGHT & INSIGHT DICE
Each player starts the game with two Insight Dice and receives an additional Insight Dice
each time they get a Moment of High or Low Insight (see Making A Dice Check on 
page 8). The exact application of an Insight Dice is between the player and GM, but 
common uses are: 
• Adding an additional dice prior to making a check, for a 3d6 dice pool
• Traded in prior to a dice roll for a +3 Conditional Modifier (CMod)
• Swapping out one or both of the rolled 2d6 dice with an Insight Dice — the Insight Dice 
is then rolled fresh and added to the total, at the cost of one Insight Dice per dice 
swapped. Note: Insight Dice cannot be used to swap out dice from a Moment of Low 
Insight once you've rolled a 1+1, the result stands.
• Used to ‘bend reality’ by allowing a player to find an unexpected clue or have a missing 
piece of required equipment (such as a rope to scale a wall or being informed of a 
guard’s routine by a drinking buddy)
• If a character would otherwise Die (see page 33), they may surrender all of their 
Insight Dice in exchange for recovering 1 Wound Point and 1 Resilience Point for each 
dice surrendered. Players cannot choose how many dice to use in this method, this 
costs all of their available Insight Dice.
Unspent dice carry over from session to session and should be recorded on the character 
sheet but once used, Insight Dice are immediately surrendered back to the GM.
Although Insight Dice can be used by a player to perform an act that helps another player, 
they are non-transferable and cannot be given directly to another player.
Chain Reactions: If a player using an Insight Dice gets a Moment of Insight (High or 
Low), this causes a Chain Reaction. The player receives two Insight Dice to add to their 
pool. They can choose to play immediately or bank them for later. 
Note: Although Insight Dice cannot be used with Group Checks (see Group Checks on 
page 11), if the group roll gets a Moment of Insight, each player taking part receives an 
Insight Dice.
MAKING THE CASE
Conditional Modifiers (CMods) are a wild card that allow 
various factors to influence a dice check. Groups are encouraged 
to make suggestions that enhance the narrative and GMs are 
likewise encouraged to work these ideas into gameplay, assuming 
they are congruent within the narrative and make good sense. In 
addition to having players Fill In The Gaps, players are 
encouraged to Make The Case for why they should be able to 
do something that receives a CMod.
For example, Making The Case may range from a group 
suggesting that as two of their companions are distracting a 
guard, that the player flanking him would get a +1 CMod to their 
next initiative check, to a character reasoning that because they 
grew up in East Texas that their native accent would encourage 
locals to listen to them. The GM may then agree that this is worth 
a +1 CMod to any Influence-based checks.
A GM always has the final say in whether Making The Case was 
successful and the CMod added.
FILLING IN THE GAPS
Much of the gameplay in Distemper is the group of 
players collectively and collaborative telling a story. 
Filling in the Gaps is one of the primary tools the 
GM has to keep the narrative moving by having the 
players share what they are seeing or doing. 
By having players Fill in the Gaps, the GM can 
ensure the group are all involved in the scene being 
played by prompting each member to help provide 
flavor and context.
Players telling each other what they are 
experiencing and how their character reacts to it is 
the heart of the game and the GM should ensure all 
players throw in at least one detail during various 
situations and interactions. 
11
GROUP CHECKS
If a group of players are attempting to 
undertake a task where multiple characters 
can contribute, instead of having each of 
them make an individual check they may pool 
their abilities to make a Group Check.
To make a Group Check, the player with the 
highest relevant individual attribute or skill 
makes their roll. This player adds +1 
Conditional Modifier for each member of the 
group participating. A group take also takes 
any other group members’ relevant attribute 
and skill modifiers into account, although 
these AMods & SMods must be the same as 
the rolling character uses. 
FOR EXAMPLE: Four players are attempting 
to find their way back to their base in the 
dark. The character who has the highest level 
of skill in Navigation (or Acumen, if no one 
has Navigation) would make the roll, adding 
a +1 CMod for each member helping with the 
check. They would also add any AMods 
anyone taking part in the check has for 
Acumen or SMods they have for Navigation.
This can lead to some potentially large rolls 
with a significantly higher likelihood of 
success, reflecting the combined effort of 
many people. 
While Insight Dice cannot be used with 
Group Checks, if the group gets a Moment 
of High or Low Insight, each player taking 
part receives an Insight Dice (See 
Moments of Insight & Insight Dice on 
page 10).
OPPOSED CHECKS
There are times when characters might need to 
make an Opposing Check to quantify their 
response to the situation, such as two characters 
having an arm-wrestling contest. Unlike most dice 
checks in Distemper, Opposed Checks are 
resolved on the total scores involved, rather than 
on the gradation of Outcomes usually associated 
with a dice check. 
Both parties start with an Initiative check to see 
who makes the first move (see Initiative on page 
32). 
The initiative winner declares their action, Fills In
The Gaps as to what they are doing, and makes a 
check using the relevant attribute or skill. 
The other party then makes an Opposed Check
using an appropriate attribute or skill in response.
Whichever side gets the highest total score win the 
Opposed Check. 
In the event of a draw, neither side won and, 
depending on the nature of the check, it is likely 
that these checks will continue until there is a clear 
winner.
Moments of Insight still apply, and a character 
who gets a Moment of Low Insight (a double 
one) will automatically lose (unless their opponent 
also gets a Moment of Low Insight) and 
similarly, a character getting a Moment of High
Insight (a double six) will automatically win, 
unless their opponent gets the same dice roll. If 
both sides get a Moment of Insight, they go 
back to Initiative rolls and start again.
FOR EXAMPLE: a player character and NPC are 
engaged in an arm-wrestling contest. The player 
character wins the initiative and both characters 
make a Physicality check. The player gets a total 
score of 12 while the NPC gets 8, so the character 
is easily able to beat his opponent. Had both sides 
gotten a score of 12 then neither side has the 
advantage and Initiative is rolled again.
There may be times when different skills or 
attributes are used on either side - such as one 
character attempting to use their Influence or 
Charm to win over another character who uses 
their Acumen or Survival to see through the 
attempt. 
The GM always has final say on which skills are to 
be used in the checks. 


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 8 ==========

12
NAME, AND OTHER PERSONAL DATA
This is where to record your character’s name, their 
profession, and various details that have no substantive 
impact on gameplay but can help provide some definition 
and background, such as your character’s height, weight, 
gender, and age. 
Also in this section in a space to write the “3 words” that 
were defined during character creation to sum up your 
character’s personality and outlook. See Step Xero: Who 
Are They? on page 16 for more details.
COMPLICATIONS & MOTIVATIONS
Each character has a Complication from their life before 
the pandemic as well as a Motivation that serves to 
drive their behaviors. 
Both the Complication & Motivation serve to help 
players understand what drives their character and how 
they would respond in given situations. See Step Six: 
What Drives Them on page 19 for details.
RAPID RANGE MODIFIERS
Each character has a series of physical and mental 
attributes (collectively called the RAPID Range) that 
reflect their Reason, Acumen, Physicality, Influence
and Dexterity. This RAPID Range influences how 
effective they are when undertaking tasks using those 
attributes.
Although RAPID Range attributes 
start at -2 (Lame) and go to 5 
(Animalistic), 0 is Average, and 
is the starting value for all 
characters. 
Although RAPID Range attributes 
start at -2 (Diminished) and go 
up to +4 (Human Peak) for 
player characters, 0 is Average
and is the starting value for all 
characters. 
Animals and machines may 
reach +5 
(Superhuman).
Your character’s RAPID Range attribute is also their 
Attribute Modifier (AMod) and is applied to any dice 
check using that attribute. 
These mods are outlined on Table 2: Rapid Range.
The RAPID Range attributes are:
REASON: How smart, how quick, and how well educated 
a character is, in addition to how well they process and 
retain data. Characters with a high Reason tend to be 
good at skills that require an elevated degree of mental 
agility.
ACUMEN: The midpoint between perception and 
cunning, Acumen affects a characters’ ability to read a 
situation or person and defines how well they can turn 
things to their advantage. Characters with a high 
Acumen are very in tune with their surroundings and 
tend to rely on their instincts.
PHYSICALITY: Not only a measure of how strong, 
tough, or athletic a character is, Physicality also 
represents how much self-control and will-power they are 
about to exert. Characters with a high Physicality are 
capable of amazing feats of strength and discipline.
INFLUENCE: A measure of how much charm, charisma, 
or sheer physical beauty a character possesses, in 
addition to how well they are able to use that to their 
advantage. Characters with a high Influence are often 
able to convince, manipulate, or bend others to their will.
DEXTERITY: Agility, reflexes and hand-eye coordination, 
characters with a high Dexterity often tend to be good 
at skills and activities that require being nimble, quick on 
their feet, or having a high degree of fine motor skills.
SKILLS
Most Skill Modifiers start at 0 (Untrained) and go up 
to +4 (Life’s Work) for a subject a character has 
devoted many years of their life to studying and 
perfecting, as laid out on Table 3: Skill Modifiers.
There some skills that required such specialized training 
(such as Demolitions* or Surgery*), that characters 
without that training start at -3 (Inept). As soon as a 
character gets 1 level, they go from -3 (Inept) to +1 
(Beginner). These skills are denoted on the character 
sheet with an asterisks, such as Surgery*.
Players should write in the number of levels in each skill 
next to the skill name for ease of reference during play. 
Each level in a Skill brings a corresponding +1 SMod to 
any check involving that skill, and so a character with 
Unarmed Combat 2 would write that on their sheet and 
receive +2 for any Unarmed Combat checks.
Each skill is associated with an attribute, such as Stealth 
with Dexterity. As AMods and SMods are cumulative, the 
associated attribute is written next to the skill name in 
parenthesis, such as Stealth (Dex). 
For ease of reference, Skills are grouped on the 
character sheet by type. These group are: Criminal, 
Combat, Innate, Knowledge, Mechanic, Medicine, 
and Sway Skills. 
SECONDARY STATS
Secondary Statistics are derived from the RAPID 
Range attributes as well as certain skills, all of which are 
all explained in detail during the Character Creation
stage.
Secondary Stats either have a direct bearing on 
combat, such as Wound & Resilience Points, 
Initiative, and Defensive Modifiers, or they can have 
some other impact on gameplay, such as how much 
weight the character can carry (Encumbrance), their 
Panic Threshold, their Breaking Point, and their 
Morality score. 
This section is also where to record how many Insight
Dice and Character Development Points (CDP) the 
character has. Each character starts with 2 Insight Dice
(see Moments of Insight & Insight Dice on page 10) 
1
2
3
4
A character acts as a player’s eyes, mouth, feet, and hands within the game world. It is what gives them agency and is the 
mechanism by which players interact with other players, non-player characters (NPCs), and the world around them. 
Although in game terms they are little more than a collection of statistics and mechanics – how strong they are, or how 
well they can fire a weapon – a character is most importantly defined by the voice that a player gives to them, and it is 
vital that each players has a clear understanding of who their character is if they are to determine how they will act and 
react to various situations within the gameworld.
Character creation is detailed on pages 14 to 21, but it can be helpful to understand how the various elements tie 
together before starting, and so each aspect of the character sheet is covered below. 
A blank Character Sheet can be found on pages 40-41 and is available for download from www.DistemperVerse.com
13
and 0 Character
Development Points
(CDP). Both of these are 
earned or awarded and then 
spent at various points during 
the game, or the character’s 
Evolution (see the 
Distemper Core Rulebook
for more details on 
Character Evolution).
WEAPONS AND 
EQUIPMENT
All characters start the game with a limited amount of 
weapons, ammunition, and equipment. Each of these 
items should be recorded in this section and you should 
circle the correct Type, Range, & Condition of the 
weapon for ease of reference. Each weapon section also 
has an ammunition tracker that should be marked as 
ammo is consumed. 
Additionally, one weapons section records how much 
damage a character does with their bare Fists.
Additionally, this section has a Rations tracker. Each 
character starts the game with two Rations (enough to 
eat and drink for 2 days) and you should mark those on 
this sheet, removing one at the end of each game day.
NOTE: If your character doesn’t have an item listed on 
their character sheet, they don’t have it in the game.
PORTRAIT
Whether this is a sketch, a photo, a stock image, a panel 
from one of the comics, or even just a description, this is 
where to record how your character appears to others. 
BACKGROUND INFO & NOTES
This section is to track the various details that help 
develop the character. If the character was created via 
the Backstory Generation process (see page 14) then 
they should already have a story that was created as 
they created their character, this should be recorded 
here. If a player choose to simply spend CDP to build 
the character they wanted, they should use their 
imagination to Fill In The Gaps about their character’s 
background story.
RELATIONSHIPS
Relationships between player characters and non-player 
characters are important in Distemper, and players will 
find themselves having different interactions with each 
one. Some interactions are defined by First
Impressions and Gut Instincts (see page 30) and 
may factor into Negotiations (see page 31). The 
CMods influencing those interactions should be recorded 
here, next to the NPC’s name.
ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT & NOTES
In addition to Weapons & Equipment, each character 
starts the game with one Incidental Item to help 
provide them with color and context, as well as a Basic 
Survival Kit which contains a Sleeping Bag and a Tent, 
that should all be recorded in this section.
Anything not recorded elsewhere on the sheet or any 
other details that the player wishes to remember should 
go into this section. This might include details like 
whether your character is perpetually grumpy, if they are 
searching for friends and family, or if they have a habit 
of shuffling a deck of cards as they look for a sucker to 
get into a game. Anything that helps you remember how 
you are playing belongs here.
5
6
7
8
10
9


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 9 ==========

The characters at the core of the stories told in Distemper are not action movie heroes 
with seemingly endless skills and proficiencies who are prepared for every eventuality, 
they are very much ordinary people navigating extraordinary circumstances. 
Distemper offers various ways to create a character, and the method you choose might 
depend on the clarity of vision you already have for your character, how much time you 
have to prepare, or perhaps if the GM has given you specific requirements for the story 
they want to tell. However, ultimately it is up to you as a player to define the character 
you want to play and use the method that best suits you.
BACKSTORY GENERATION:
If you want to define each element of your character and watch them evolve over the 
course of their lives, the Backstory Generation process allows you to choose each 
individual detail and create exactly the character you want to play.
Backstory Generation is a life-pathing process where players allocate 20 Character 
Development Points (CDP) towards customizing their character's attributes and 
skills. However, the Backstory Generation process goes beyond just increasing 
attributes or buying skills, and players are prompted to make note of specific details 
that help define and flesh out their lives before the Dog Flu. In doing so, characters will 
have a brief history that reflects the various stages of their lives, such as their 
upbringing, education, their hobbies, their jobs, and any influential people they met 
along the way. This helps establish a cohesive framework for who they were before the 
pandemic, and how they will react to situations presented in the game.
To track the output of the Backstory Generation process, there is a character 
generator available from DistemperVerse.com/resources.
PARADIGMS
If you prefer to quickly jump into the game without much preparation, you can choose 
from the dozen available Paradigms (see page 24). These allow you to play a specific 
and familiar type of character, such as a school teacher, a small town sheriff a biker, or a 
preacher. Simply add a name and a few other key details about your character, and you 
are ready to start playing. 
PREGENS
The quickest option is to simply choose one of the many pregenerated characters, or 
Pregens, available at DistemperVerse.com. These characters come fully defined, 
including their statistics, backstory, and equipment, allowing you to start playing without 
any additional work. 
An example character, Percy "Pesky" LaRue is created during this walk-through to 
illustrate the Backstory Generation process, and is available for download along with 
other Pregens from DistemperVerse.com/pregens.
TAKING THE QUICK ROUTE:
Experienced players who are already familiar with 
the Xero Sum Engine may choose to skip the first 
five steps of this process, with the GM's agreement. 
Instead, they should allocate 5 Character 
Development Points to raising their RAPID Range 
Attributes and 15 CDP to their Skills. They may not 
raise attributes beyond 3 (Exceptional) or skills 
beyond 3 (Professional). 
NOTE: It is still recommended that players Fill In 
The Gaps about their character's past, as this will 
provide a better understanding of their motivations 
and reactions in various situations.
SUMMARY: FINAL FLAVOR 
You should now have at least 1 sentence per step, and your background should 
be fleshed out. Make a note of any additional details that help define the 
character. Check that the 3 words you picked in step one are still valid.
SEE PAGE 21 FOR DETAILS
STEP EIGHT: WHAT THEY HAVE 
Choose a Primary & Secondary weapon from tables 11-13. Weapons requiring ammo 
start with 1d6. Players pick one piece of Equipment from table 14 and an Incidental 
item from table 15. Each character starts with a Survival Kit and 2 days of rations.
SEE PAGE 21 FOR DETAILS
STEP SIX: WHAT DRIVES THEM
Choose a Complication and a Motivation for your character 
from Tables 4 & 5, or roll 2d6 for random elements. 
SEE PAGE 19 FOR DETAILS
STEP FIVE: WHAT THEY LEARNED AFTER
Spend 3 CDP on raising Skills from 0 to 3.
SEE PAGE 19 FOR DETAILS
STEP FOUR: HOW THEY MADE MONEY
Spend 2 CDP on raising RAPID Range attributes from 0 to 3, and 7 CDP on raising 
Skills from 0 to 3. Both attributes and skills can be raised from 2-3 during this step.
SEE PAGE 18 FOR DETAILS
STEP THREE: WHAT THEY LIKED TO DO
Spend 1 CDP to raise a RAPID Range attribute from 0 to 1, or 1 to 2. Spend 3 CDP raising 
Skills from 0 to 1, or 1 to 2. Skills cannot be raised to level 3 during this step.
SEE PAGE 17 FOR DETAILS
STEP TWO: WHAT THEY LEARNED
Spend 1 CDP to raise a RAPID Range attribute from 0 to 1, or 1 to 2. Spend 3 CDP raising 
Skills from 0 to 1, or 1 to 2. Skills cannot be raised to level 3 during this step.
SEE PAGE 17 FOR DETAILS
STEP ONE: WHERE THEY GREW UP 
Spend 1 CDP raising a RAPID Range Attribute from 0 to 1 (or from -3 to 1). Spend 2 
CDP raising Skills from 0 to 1, or 1 to 2. Skills cannot be raised to level 3 during this step
SEE PAGE 16 FOR DETAILS
STEP XERO: WHO ARE THEY? 
Who are you going to be? Define as much as you know of their 
concept at this point and choose 3 words that describe your character.
SEE PAGE 16 FOR DETAILS
STEP SEVEN: SECONDARY STATS 
Work out their Wound Points, Resilience Points, Defense Modifiers, 
Initiative Modifier, Encumbrance Limit, Panic Threshold and Breaking Point.
SEE PAGE 20 FOR DETAILS


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 10 ==========

16
STEP XERO: WHO ARE THEY?
Distemper gives you the flexibility of defining you character concept in different ways. 
Some may start by deciding who they want to be in the post-apocalyptic world, while others may 
come to their character concept organically through the Backstory Generation process. 
Regardless of when it's decided, you should be able to summarize you character to the group in 
just a few sentences before the game begins. The concept can be simple or complex, depending 
on you preference. 
• Are you a shepherd or are you the hunter? 
• Are you a leader trying to rally people behind an idea or are
 you just trying to stay alive? 
• Do you have the medical training that will keep the sick and
 wounded alive or are you just extremely good at doing to
 others before it is done to you? 
• Are you a dark and malevolent soul in search of a kingdom
 or a wiser, older soul who still wants to see the good in
 everyone?
Each player can decide how much of this information you are going to 
share with the group (and what you want to keep to yourself) but 
having a good understanding of your characters’ concept will help guide 
your decisions when trying to decide how they would react to a given 
situation or when role-playing as that character. 
Regardless of how much you have decided by this point, you should 
choose 3 descriptive words that help you summarize who your character 
is. Are they stubborn? Angry? Compassionate? Perceptive? Whichever 3 words you come up with, 
write them on your character sheet. 
With a character concept as minimal as a streetwise petty criminal who has always 
survived by relying on his wits, the 3 descriptors for Pesky LaRue are: Shrewd, 
Manipulative, and Sneaky. 
STEP ONE: WHERE THEY GREW UP
The Where They Grew Up step typically covers the first 10-15 years of a character's life, during 
which many of their attitudes and outlooks are formed. It's important to consider how and where 
your character was raised and the impact it had on them as, while each character's childhood will 
be unique, considering these factors can help you shape your character's backstory and 
motivations.
During the Backstory Generation process, reflecting on what your character learned during 
their early life is crucial. 
• 
Were you raised on a farm, developing a strong Physicality and understanding of 
the natural world, or were you raised by academically focused parents where 
Reason was valued above all else? 
• 
Were you a street urchin, relying on your Acumen and dexterity to survive, or did 
you grow up in a circus where their ability to Entertain and Charm others was 
crucial for survival?
Characters start with a RAPID Range of 00000 and you receive 1 
Character Development Point (CDP) to add to any of their RAPID 
Range attributes, which raises it from 0 (Average) to 1 (Good). 
Additionally, you'll receive 2 CDP to spend on any of the skills listed on 
page 25. When purchasing levels in a skill during any step, each level 
costs 1 CDP per point. Putting 1 CDP into a skill that starts at -3 
(Inept) takes it to 1 (Beginner).
NOTE: Skills cannot be raised beyond 2 (Journeyman) during this 
step. 
To help shape your character's backstory, make a note of where and 
how they were raised and any defining events that may have influenced 
their formative years, summarizing it in 1-3 sentences.
Although born Percy LaRue, Pesky was given his nickname 
since before he could walk. Raised on the east side of Chicago, 
Pesky lived with his crack-addicted mother and younger 
brother, Elias. At an early age he got as good at hiding the truth 
as he was at shop-lifting food.
Pesky puts 1 Character Development Point into Acumen, and 1 
Character Development Point each into Manipulation and Sleight of 
Hand, to get 1 (Beginner) in those two skills.
STEP ONE: 
WHERE THEY GREW UP
To reflect what the character learned during 
their early life, you get 1 Character 
Development Point to add to their any 
RAPID Range attribute, raising it from 0 
(Average) to 1 (Good).
You also get 2 Character Development 
Points to spend on any of the skills listed 
on page 25. 
During this step of the Backstory 
Generation process, buying 1 or 2 levels in 
a skill both cost 1 CDP per point.
Skills cannot be raised beyond 2 
(Journeyman) during Step One.
STEP XERO: 
WHO ARE THEY?
Write down as much of your character 
concept as you have already define. 
To illustrate your character's personality 
and behaviors, choose three descriptive 
words that define who they are. This 
could be how they perceive themselves or 
how others perceive them. These three 
words are intended to help guide your 
character's reactions and decisions in 
various situations.
Write the three 3 words under Personal 
Information on your character sheet.
17
STEP TWO: WHAT THEY LEARNED
This step covers what your character picked up over the years, how it shaped their outlook, 
their abilities, and how it prepared them for their adult lives.
• 
Did you get your education from books in an academic institute where an eye 
for detail was paramount to success? 
• 
Were you raised on a commune where you learned by doing, honing the 
practical skills that came through experience, not reading?
No matter where they learned their lessons, your characters’ experiences during this 
education step of their life gives you 1 Character Development Point to spend 
increasing any RAPID Range attribute from 0 (Average) to 1 (Good), or from 1 
(Good) 
to 2 (Strong).
You also get 3 Character Development Points to spend on raising skills. It costs 1 
Character Development Point to raise a skill from 
0 (Untrained) to 1 (Beginner), or from 1 (Beginner) to 2 (Journeyman). Skills 
cannot be raised above 2 (Journeyman) during the What They Learned step. 
Make a note of how and where your character got their Education, summarizing in 1-3 
sentences any specific lessons they learned or an impactful figures that may have 
influenced, hindered, or mentored them during this period.
Pesky dropped out of high school at 14 and spent the next few years 
pocketing enough food for him and his family. Fat Fingered Frankie, a local 
hustler, took a liking to the young boy and helped him up his skills as a petty 
thief.
Pesky puts a Character Development Point into Dexterity to reflect the number of times 
he needed to make a quick getaway and spends his 4 CDP on taking Sleight of Hand to 
2 (Journeyman), and takes 1 (Beginner) in Athletics, Barter, and Navigation.
STEP THREE: WHAT THEY LIKED TO DO
This step is where you can add some additional depth to your character by thinking about how 
they spent their free time, and how that affected their skills and RAPID Range attributes. 
• 
Were you an avid rock climber, honing your Physicality and mental discipline?
• 
Were you a bookworm, constantly learning new trivia and vital facts?
You get 1 Character Development Point to apply to raising a RAPID Range attribute. 
During this step, attributes can be raised from 2 (Strong) to 3 
(Exceptional).
You also get 3 Character Development Points to allocate to skills 
that reflect your character's passions, interests, and hobbies - the 
things that really motivated them as a person before the outbreak. 
Skills cannot be raised above 2 (Journeyman) in this step.
Make a note in 1-3 sentences of what was it that made your character 
who they were before the pandemic - what did they do for fun? What 
were their hobbies? What made them tick?
As he grew, Pesky found he had a way with the ladies who 
loved his ‘bad boy trying to be good’ shtick almost as much as 
their boyfriends hated it, and he often found his best defense 
was the pool cue in his hands.
Pesky puts 1 Character Development Point towards Influence, raising 
it to 1 (Good) and spends one of his 4 Character Development Points 
on getting another level in Manipulation to take it to 2 (Journeyman), and 3 points on 
getting 1 (Beginner) in Intimidation, Melee Combat, and Unarmed Combat
After these steps, Pesky LaRue has gone from a RAPID Range of 00000 and no 
skills to a RAPID Range of 01011. He has the following Skills: Athletics 2, Barter 1, 
Intimidation 1, Manipulation 2, Melee Combat 1, Sleight of Hand 2, and Unarmed Combat 1
STEP TWO: 
WHAT THEY LEARNED
During this step you can allocate 1 
Character Development Point
towards raising any RAPID Range 
attribute, as well as 3 Character 
Development Points towards 
raising skills.
It costs 1 CDP to raise a Skill from 0 
(Untrained) to 1 (Beginner), or 
from 1 (Beginner) to 2 
(Journeyman).
Skills cannot be raised above 2 
(Journeyman) during the What 
They Learned step.
STEP THREE: 
WHAT THEY LIKED TO DO
Add 1 Character Development Point to 
any RAPID Range Attribute. During this 
step, you can raise an attribute from 2 
(Strong) to 3 (Exceptional).
Allocate 3 CDP to the skills that reflect your 
characters' passions, interests, and 
hobbies.
In this step, Skills cannot be raised above 2 
(Journeyman).


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 11 ==========

18
ACADEMIC:
Entertainment
Farming
General Knowledge 
Pharmacology* 
Psychology*
Surgery*
Tactics*
LAW ENFORCEMENT:
Athletics
Hunting
Intimidation
Manipulation
Ranged Combat
Stealth
Tactics*
MEDIC:
First Aid
General Knowledge
Inspiration
Manipulation
Pharmacology* 
Psychology*
Surgery*
MILITARY:
Athletics
Demolitions*
Hunting
Ranged Combat
Survival
Tactics*
Unarmed Combat
OUTDOORSMAN:
Animal Handling 
Farming
Hunting
Melee Combat
Navigation
Stealth
Survival
MECHANIC:
Armorsmith*
Barter
General Knowledge
Scavenging
Tinkerer
Vehicle Repair* 
Weaponsmith*
OUTLAW:
Intimidation
Lock-Picking*
Manipulation
Psychology*
Sleight of Hand
Stealth
Unarmed Combat
PERFORMER:
Athletics
Entertainment
Inspiration
Manipulation
Psychology*
Sleight of Hand
Stealth
POLITICIAN:
Barter
Entertainment
Inspiration
Intimidation
Manipulation
Psychology*
Tactics*
TRADER:
Barter
General Knowledge 
Inspiration
Manipulation
Scavenging
Sleight of Hand
Tinkerer
STEP FOUR: HOW THEY MADE MONEY
During this step you define what it was that your character did for work - or, at least, how they made 
money - before the Dog Flu. There are 12 Professions listed below that reflect common occupations 
along with associated vocational skills. 
You receive 2 Character Development Points to spend on any RAPID Range attribute, which can 
be raised from 2 (Strong) to 3 (Exceptional) during this step. 
To represent the expertise and mastery that comes through the years your character has devoted to 
learning their craft, you get 4 Character Development Points to allocate to various skills. Skills can be 
raised from 2 (Journeyman) to 3 (Professional) during this step. 
The listed Professions and related skills are simply thematically appropriate suggestions and you're free 
to choose skills that better fit your character concept. If none of the listed Professions align with your 
vision, you can create a custom profession by allocating 7 CDP on the skills that match the idea you have 
in mind. You should still be prepared to Fill in the Gaps for the rest of the group about your character's 
background and how they got their skills.
The Professions are: Academic, Driver, Entrepreneur, Law 
Enforcement, Mechanic, Medic, Military, Outdoorsman, Outlaw, 
Performer, Politician, and Trader.
Make a note of what it was that they did to make money before the virus and 
summarize in 1-2 sentences any defining events or interactions they may have 
had during this time in you life, particularly as it comes to helping explain 
their choice of skills and background. 
Although Pesky was able to avoid being sucked into a street gang, 
he never made it beyond being a petty criminal who had multiple 
run-ins with the law. After the death of his mom, he felt increasingly 
responsible for his younger brother.
Pesky puts an additional Character Development Point into Acumen, 
raising it to 2 (Strong), and 1 point into Physicality raising it to 1 (Good). 
Choosing Outlaw as his Profession, he gets 7 CDP to spend on raising 
skills. He spends 2 points on both Lock-Picking* and Stealth, and then an 
additional point in Intimidation, Manipulation, and Unarmed Combat. 
PROFESSIONS & VOCATIONAL SKILLS
STEP FOUR: 
HOW THEY MADE MONEY
Add 2 Character Development Points to 
any RAPID Range Attributes. You can 
raise them from 2 (Good) to 3 
(Exceptional) during this step.
Choose a Profession and allocate 4 
CDP to any of the vocation skills. Skills 
can be raised from 2 (Journeyman) to 
3 (Professional) during this step.
If there is no Profession that matches 
your concept, allocate 4 CDP to skills of 
your choice and Fill In The Gaps as to 
what they did.
DRIVER:
Barter
Lock-Picking*
Navigation
Scavenging
Stealth
Tinkerer
Vehicle Repair*
ENTREPRENEUR:
Barter
General Knowledge 
Inspiration
Manipulation
Psychology*
Sleight of Hand
Tinkerer
19
STEP FIVE: WHAT THEY LEARNED AFTER
This new world is nothing but harsh lessons and struggles. Survivors have all had to pick up 
some new tricks in order to get by. In this step you detail what they have learned since 
civilization fell apart to cope with the challenges they face.
• 
Have you developed an eye for spotting useful items among the trash?
• 
Have you had to fight to stay alive, honing your boxing skills out of necessity?
You get 3 Character Development Points to apply to spend on the skills that 
reflect what they have learned in order to stay alive. Skills can be raised from 2 
(Journeyman) to 3 (Professional).
Make a note in 1-2 sentences of what was it that made your character who they 
were before the pandemic - what did they do for fun? What were their hobbies?
Pesky has spent much of the last few months on the move. He has gotten 
good at searching through empty houses, finding what others have 
missed, as learning how to survive off the land. Not everyone he has 
encountered has appreciated his approach to communal property, and his 
ability to defend himself has also improved.
Pesky puts one Character Development Point towards getting 1 (Beginner) in 
Scavenging and Survival and then adds an additional point to Melee Combat, raising 
both to 2 (Journeyman).
After these first five steps, Pesky LaRue has gone from a RAPID Range of 00000 and 
no skills to a RAPID Range of 02111 and the following skills: Manipulation 3, Athletics 2, 
Intimidation 2, Lock-Picking* 2, Melee Combat 2, Sleight of Hand 2, Stealth 2, Unarmed Combat 2, Barter 
1, Scavenging 1, and Survival 1.
STEP SIX: WHAT DRIVES THEM
Before coming together as a group, each character has had their own experiences and drives 
that are captured in their Complications and Motivations. These elements help provide depth 
to a character’s background as well as creating potential plot developments, to be determined by 
the GM. 
• What is the dark secret you are hiding from others in their group? 
• What is the obligation that is holding you back or driving you forward? 
• Where are you trying to get to? 
• Is there something you are trying to rediscover or rebuild? 
• Are there NPCs who are involved? 
• If you are focused on self-preservation, will you put yourself at risk for others?
While only the GM needs to know your Complication and Motivation, you should have a good 
understanding of what happened and how that might impact gameplay, and you should make a 
note of any NPC names that may become relevant later.
Pesky still feels BETRAYED by Marty Kaczynski, who he had partnered with early on 
as he tried to get out of Michigan when everything collapsed. They had agreed to 
work together to find some kind of food source or safety, but Marty had beaten 
him while he slept and stole his horse and supplies, leaving Pesky for dead. Pesky 
doesn’t know if Marty is still alive or not, he just knows that he still dreams of what 
he’ll do once he catches up to him and has an opportunity to take his REVENGE.
STEP FIVE: 
WHAT THEY 
LEARNED AFTER
During this step you get 3
Character Development 
Point to apply to any skills 
that your character has 
picked up since the collapse 
that have helped them stay 
alive.
STEP SIX: 
WHAT DRIVES 
THEM?
Either choose a Complication and 
a Motivation for your character 
from Tables 4 & 5, or roll 2d6 for 
a random element to weave into 
your Backstory.


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 12 ==========

20
Secondary Stats define certain aspects of a character and each has an impact on gameplay. Some 
Secondary Stats are combat related (how much damage a character can sustain before dying), some of 
them are more mechanical (how much weight can they carry before becoming exhausted), and others have 
a less direct and more tangential effect on the game, such as the point when a character freaks out. 
Wound Points (WP) determine how much damage a character can take before they become Mortally 
Wounded, and then Die. 
Resilience Points (RP) are a measure of how much damage it takes to Incapacitate a character. 
Defensive Modifiers (DM) affect not only the chance for a character to be hit but can also mitigate 
damage before affecting their WP/RP. 
Initiative determines the order in which a participant acts in combat, and a characters Initiative
Modifier (Init) influences where they fall in that ranking. 
Encumbrance (ENC) is how much weight a character can carry before becoming Encumbered and 
needing to stop and rest or drop something. 
Perception (PER): A measure of how well a character picks up on subtleties and how tuned in they are to 
their environment. Perception is the sum of their Reason AMod and Acumen AMod. It is also the default 
modifier for Gut Instinct checks.
Stress: Each character starts with a Stress Level of 0 that culminates at 5. When under extreme duress, 
emotional trauma, or have suffered physical injury they may have to make a Stress Check using the 
character's Stress Modifier. On a Failure, their Stress Level goes up by 1.
Breaking Point: When a character's Stress Level reaches 5, they hit their Breaking Point and have some 
kind of freak-out or psychotic episode. The player rolls 2d6 on Table 13: Breaking Point to determine 
their character's reaction, which lasts 1d6 rounds. Once the reaction resolves, Stress Level resets to 0.
Morality is a measure of how true a character is acting to their own ethical compass. Each character starts 
with a Morality value of 3, which can be affected over time. The Morality rules are covered in the 
Distemper Core Rulebook. 
Wound Points: As Pesky has both a Physicality & Dexterity of 1, he starts with 10+1+1, or 12 
WP. 
Resilience Points: With a Physicality 1, Pesky starts with 6+1, or 7 RP. 
Defensive Modifiers: With both a Physicality & Dexterity of 1, Pesky starts with a -1 Defense 
Modifier for both Melee and Ranged.
Initiative Modifier: Pesky’s Acumen of 2 and Dexterity of 1 means he starts with a 0+2+1 
Initiative Modifier, or +3. 
Encumbrance: With a Physicality of 1, Pesky starts with an Encumbrance of 6+1, or 7.
Panic Threshold: Pesky’s has 7 Resilience Points, making his Panic Threshold 3 (50% of 7, 
rounded down).
Breaking Point: With a Reason of 0 and Acumen of +2, Pesky gets a Breaking Point of 3+2, or 
5. 
Morality: Like all characters, Pesky starts with a Morality of 3. 
STEP SEVEN: SECONDARY STATS
STEP SEVEN: SECONDARY STATS
Wound Points (WP): Characters start with 10 Wound Points + Physicality AMod + 
Dexterity AMod
Resilience Points (RP): Each character starts with 6 Resilience Points + Physicality
AMod
Defensive Modifiers (DM): A characters’ Melee Defensive Modifier is their 
Physicality AMod
A characters’ Ranged Defensive Modifier is their Dexterity AMod
Initiative Modifier (Init): The sum of Acumen and Dexterity AMods is an 
Initiative Modifier which is added to initiative checks
Encumbrance (ENC): Characters start with an Encumbrance value of 6 + 
Physicality AMod
Panic Threshold (PT): Each character has a Panic Threshold that is half of their 
original Resilience Point total,rounded down
Breaking Point: The Breaking Point for each character is 3 + Reason AMod + 
Acumen AMod
Morality: Each character starts with a Morality of 3
21
STEP NINE: FINAL FLAVOR
During the Backstory Generation process you were prompted to 
note down relevant facts about your character as you progressed 
through the various steps. By now, you should have a good idea of 
who your character was before the pandemic and who they have 
become since. 
Transpose this information onto your character sheet, along with any 
other relevant details that can aid you in role-playing as your 
character. This may include physical features, personality traits, 
quirks, or personal beliefs.
Your character might gallows humor and find laughter in even the 
darkest moments, or maybe they are the brooding and silent type 
who watches everything but says nothing. They could be still 
struggling to come to terms with the loss of their previous life, or 
they may have accepted this new, hazardous world and are 
committed to flourishing in it.
Now is a perfect time to revisit the three words you picked to define 
your character in Step Xero. Do those words still match your 
character's personality now that you are done with the Backstory 
Generation process, or do you need to make changes? 
If you ever find yourself at a loss as to how to react to a situation or 
how to role-play as your character, refer back to the paragraph you 
have created and the three defining words to guide your actions.
STEP NINE: 
FINAL FLAVOR
Copy the sentences you wrote 
during the Backstory Generation 
process onto your character 
sheet. 
Check that the three descriptors 
you chose in Step Xero still ring 
true, and make adjustments if 
they don’t. 
Make any additional notes on 
your character sheet that will 
help you remember who your 
character is.
STEP EIGHT: WHAT THEY HAVE
Each character picks a Primary and Secondary weapon from Tables 11-13 on pages 
28-29, and receives 1d6 of ammunition per weapon.
Each character make take one piece of Equipment from Table 14 as well as an 
Incidental item from table 15 that provides no combat value but may otherwise be 
useful (such as eye glasses or a map of the area).
Additionally, each character gets a Survival Kit consisting of a tent and sleeping bag, 
as well as 2 units of Rations, enough to last them 2 days.
Make a note of everything your character has on their sheet and remember, if it isn’t 
written on your character sheet, you don’t have it in the game.
Pesky, who has been in many pool hall 
fights, found a baton in an abandoned 
police car and felt that it was similar 
enough to a broken pool cue to match 
his fighting style. He also picked up a 
shotgun and got 3 shells after rolling 
d6. He takes a set of Standard Lock-
Picks as his piece of Equipment and a 
map of the area as his Incidental item. 
STEP EIGHT: 
WHAT HAVE THEY GOT?
Pick a Primary and Secondary weapon 
from Tables 11-13. If the weapon 
requires ammo, you start with d6.
Pick 1 item from Table 14: Equipment.
Pick an Incidental item from Table 15.
You start with a Survival Kit and 2 days 
rations. 


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 13 ==========

22
This is the character sheet for Pesky LaRue, the example character created during the Backstory Generation process, 
and is available for download and use in a game from DISTEMPERVERSE.COM/PREGENS
23


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 14 ==========

24
SKILLS
Skills denote training or aptitude at performing certain tasks, like 
picking a lock or riding a horse and a character’s familiarity and 
aptitude in that area will affect their dice checks. Each skill is tied to an 
attribute and the more naturally gifted a character is, the more 
competent they will be when using related skills. 
These Skill Modifiers (or SMods) range from -3 
(Inept) through to +4 (Life’s Work) and are applied 
to all dice checks using that skill. Although starting 
characters are initially capped at +3 (Professional), 
+4 (Life’s Work) can potentially be achieved over 
time as part of the character’s Evolution. 
Characters start with the majority of their skills at 0 
(Untrained) and they can still use those skills but 
receive 0 SMod on the check. Additionally, the GM may 
even decide to apply a -1 CMod, due to the complexity 
of the check or other external factors. 
Certain skills require very specific training and anyone without that 
training are considered Inept and automatically incur a -3 SMod. 
These skills are denoted by an asterisks when written, such as Lock-
Picking* and Surgery*. These start at -3 (Inept) but go to 1 
(Beginner) with the allocation of 1 Character Development Point. 
A full list of Skills can be found on the following page.
PARADIGMS VS. PREGENS
For those wishing to just get into the thick of the action, there are 16 
Paradigms included that ,with a minimum of customization, can be 
played almost immediately.
Paradigms represents a familiar trope, stereotype, or role within a 
group, and each comes predefined with the attributes and a skill set to 
match the concept. Each is detailed on pages 26-27, and Paradigm 
Character Sheets that can be customized are available at 
DistemperVerse.com. 
The Paradigms included are: Bar Owner, Beat Cop, Biker, EMT, 
Family Doctor, Farmer, Flea Market Trader, Hot Rod Mechanic, 
Mayor, Mercenary, Petty Criminal, Preacher, Rural Sheriff, 
School Teacher, Semi-Pro Athlete and Trucker. 
A player simply needs to pick a Paradigm, give them a name, choose 
a Complication and Motivation from Tables 4 & 5 (on page 19), and 
define their attitude to the world in 3 words to begin playing.
Although each Paradigm already has their RAPID Range, skills and 
Secondary Stats defined, it is really when you define key elements of 
their personality - their name, age, Complication and Motivation, 
the 3 words that describe their character, even their Incidental Item - 
that you breathe life into your character. It is these elements that give 
you a sense of who you character is and how they will act.
As an even quicker alternative to Paradigms, there are multiple 
Pregenerated Characters, or Pregens, available for download. 
These Pregens come with all of their RAPID Range Attributes, Skills, 
Complications, Motivations, and Secondary Stats defined, in addition to 
a semi-complete Backstory that provides an easy jump off pointing 
while still allowing plenty of room for customization. 
The library of Pregens available at distemperverse.com/pregens
will be updated with the release of each adventure and sourcebook.
25


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 15 ==========

26
BIKER
02102
WP 13 RP 7 DMM 1 DMR 2 
INIT 4 ENC 7 PT 3 BP 5
Complication: Personal Enemy
Motivation: Hedonism
SKILLS: Navigation 2, 
Vehicle Repair* 2, Barter 1, 
Demolitions* 1, Hunting 1, 
Intimidation 2, Lock-Picking* 1, 
Manipulation 1, Melee Combat 1, 
Ranged Combat 1, Scavenging 
1, Sleight of Hand 1, Stealth 1, 
Survival 1, Unarmed Combat 1 
WEAPONS: Fists 1d3+2
Sawed-Off Shotgun [5] 2+3d6; 
Tactical Baton 2+1d3 (100%); 
EQUIPMENT: Toolkit; 
Survival Kit (Tent, Sleeping Bag); 
2 Rations; 
Bar Owner
12020
WP 10 RP 6 DMM 0 DMR 0
INIT 2 ENC 6 PT 3 BP 6
Complication: Loss
Motivation: Build
SKILLS: Manipulation 3, Barter 2, 
Entertainment 2, Scavenging 2, 
Tinkerer 2, Athletics 1, First Aid 1, 
General Knowledge 2, Inspiration 
1, Psychology* 1, Sleight of Hand 
1, Stealth 1, Unarmed Combat 1
WEAPONS: Fists 1d3+1
Light Pistol [4] 3+1d6; 
Hatchet 3+1d3; 
EQUIPMENT: Walkie-Talkie; 
Survival Kit (Tent, Sleeping Bag); 
2 Rations; 
HOT ROD 
MECHANIC
11102
WP 13 RP 7 DMM 1 DMR 2 
INIT 3 ENC 7 PT 3 BP 5
Complication: Loss
Motivation: Build
SKILLS: Armorsmith* 1, 
Barter 1, Demolitions* 1, 
First Aid 1, General Knowledge 1, 
Lock-Picking* 1, Melee Combat 2, 
Navigation 1, Ranged Combat 1, 
Scavenging 2, Sleight of Hand 1, 
Survival 1, Tinkerer 2, Vehicle 
Repair* 3, Weaponsmith* 1
WEAPONS: Fists 1d3+1
Pump-Action Shotgun [3] 5+2d6; 
Baseball Bat 4+1d6; 
EQUIPMENT: Toolkit; 
Survival Kit (Tent, Sleeping Bag); 
2 Rations; 
FLEA MARKET 
TRADER
12020
WP 10 RP 6 DMM 0 DMR 0
INIT 2 ENC 6 PT 3 BP 6
Complication: Loss
Motivation: Accumulate
SKILLS: Barter 3, 
Manipulation 2, Scavenging 2, 
Sleight of Hand 2, Entertainment 1, 
First Aid 1, General Knowledge 1, 
Psychology* 1, Research 1, 
Stealth 1, Survival 1, Tinkerer 1, 
Vehicle Repair* 1, Weaponsmith* 1
WEAPONS: Fists 1d3
Hammer 1+1d3 (100%); 
Hunting Knife 2+2d3; 
EQUIPMENT: Toolkit; 
Survival Kit (Tent, Sleeping Bag); 
2 Rations; 
RURAL 
SHERIFF
02021
WP 11 RP 6 DMM 0 DMR 1
INIT 3 ENC 6 PT 3 BP 5
Complication: Code of Honor
Motivation: Build
SKILLS: Intimidation 2, 
Manipulation 2, Survival 2, 
Animal Handling 1, Barter 1, 
General Knowledge 1, Hunting 1, 
Inspiration 1, Lock-Picking* 1, 
Navigation 1, Ranged Combat 1, 
Scavenging 1, Sleight of Hand 1, 
Stealth 1, Tactics* 1, Unarmed 
Combat 1, Weaponsmith* 1
WEAPONS: Fists 1d3+1
Heavy Pistol [5] 3+2d3; 
Hunting Knife 2+1d3; 
EQUIPMENT: Handcuffs; 
Survival Kit (Tent, Sleeping Bag); 
2 Rations; 
PREACHER
11030
WP 10 RP 6 DMM 0 DMR 0
INIT 1 ENC 6 PT 3 BP 6
Complication: Code of Honor
Motivation: Preach
SKILLS: General Knowledge 3, 
Inspiration 3, Manipulation 3, 
Psychology* 3, Barter 2, 
Intimidation 2, Research 1, 
Scavenging 2, Entertainment 1, 
Sleight of Hand 1
WEAPONS: Fists 1d3
Makeshift Club (Bible) 1+1d3 (100%);
Staff (Walking Stick) 2+2d3 (100%) 
EQUIPMENT: Loudspeaker; 
Survival Kit (Tent, Sleeping Bag); 
2 Rations; 
PETTY CRIMINAL
01112
WP 13 RP 7 DMM 1 DMR 2 
INIT 3 ENC 7 PT 3 BP 4
Complication: Criminal Past
Motivation: Take Advantage
SKILLS: Manipulation 3, Barter 2, 
Lock-Picking* 2, Sleight of Hand 2, 
Stealth 2, Unarmed Combat 2, 
Athletics 1, Intimidation 1, 
Melee Combat 1, Ranged Combat 1, 
Scavenging 1, Survival 1, Tinkerer 1, 
WEAPONS: Fists 1d3+3
Sawed-Off Shotgun [5] 2+3d6; 
Brass Knuckles +1 WP/RP; 
EQUIPMENT: Standard Lock-
picks; Survival Kit (Tent, 
Sleeping Bag); 2 Rations; 
BEAT COP
01121
WP 12 RP 7 DMM 1 DMR 1 
INIT 2 ENC 7 PT 3 BP 4
Complication: Code of Honor
Motivation: Protect
SKILLS: Hunting 2, Unarmed 
Combat 2, Scavenging 2, Athletics 1, 
First Aid 1, General Knowledge 1, 
Inspiration 1, Intimidation 1, Lock-
Picking* 1, Manipulation 1, Melee 
Combat 1, Navigation 1, Psychology* 
1, Ranged Combat 1, Stealth 1, 
Survival 1, Weaponsmith*
WEAPONS: Fists 1d3+3
Heavy Pistol [5] 3+2d3; 
Tactical Baton 2+1d3 (100%); 
EQUIPMENT: Handcuffs; 
Survival Kit (Tent, Sleeping Bag); 
2 Rations; 
27
EMT
21011
WP 11 RP 6 DMM 0 DMR 1
INIT 2 ENC 6 PT 3 BP 6
Complication: Code of Honor
Motivation: Find Safety
SKILLS: First Aid 3, 
Pharmacology* 2, Psychology* 2, 
Scavenging 2, Athletics 1, 
Barter 1, General Knowledge 1, 
Inspiration 1, Manipulation 1, 
Navigation 1, Sleight of Hand 1, 
Stealth 1, Surgery* 1, Survival 1 
Tinkerer 1
WEAPONS: Fists 1d3
Makeshift Club 1+1d3 (100%); 
Taser 1 (100%); 
EQUIPMENT: First Aid Kit; 
Survival Kit (Tent, Sleeping Bag); 
2 Rations; 
COSMETIC 
SURGEON
31010
WP 10 RP 6 DMM 0 DMR 0
INIT 1 ENC 6 PT 3 BP 7
Complication: Code of Honor
Motivation: Protect
SKILLS: Manipulation 3, 
Surgery* 3, General Knowledge 2, 
Pharmacology* 2, Psychology* 2, 
Tinkerer 2, Athletics 1, First Aid 1, 
Scavenging 1, Sleight of Hand 1, 
Stealth 1, Survival 1
WEAPONS: Fists 1d3
Tranquilizer 0+Stunned;
Makeshift Club 1+1d3 (100%);
EQUIPMENT: Doctor’s Bag; 
Survival Kit (Tent, Sleeping Bag); 
2 Rations; 
SKILLS: Farming 3, 
Animal Handling 2, Hunting 2, 
Stealth 2, Survival 2, 
Athletics 1, Barter 1, 
First Aid 1, General Knowledge 1, 
Navigation 1, Ranged Combat 1, 
Scavenging 1, Tinkerer 1, 
Vehicle Repair* 1
WEAPONS: Fists 1d3+2
Sawed-Off Shotgun [5] 5+2d6; 
Hunting Knife 2+2d3; 
EQUIPMENT: Angler’s Kit; 
Survival Kit (Tent, Sleeping Bag); 
2 Rations; 
FARMER
01202
WP 14 RP 8 DMM 2 DMR 2 
INIT 4 ENC 8 PT 4 BP 4
Complication: Loss
Motivation: Build
TRUCKER
02102
WP 13 RP 7 DMM 1 DMR 2 
INIT 4 ENC 7 PT 3 BP 5
Complication: Loss
Motivation: Stay Alive
SKILLS: Demolitions* 2, 
General Knowledge 2, Navigation 2, 
Vehicle Repair* 2, Barter 1, 
Hunting 1, Lock-Picking* 1, 
Manipulation 1, Melee Combat 1, 
Research 1, Scavenging 1, Sleight 
of Hand 1, Stealth 1, Survival 1, 
Tinkerer 1, Unarmed Combat 1
WEAPONS: Fists 1d3+2
Sawed-Off Shotgun [5] 5+2d6;
 Makeshift Club (Tire Iron) 1+1d3; 
EQUIPMENT: Walkie-Talkie; 
Survival Kit (Tent, Sleeping Bag); 
2 Rations; 
SEMI-PRO 
ATHLETE
00212
WP 14 RP 8 DMM 2 DMR 2 
INIT 2 ENC 8 PT 4 BP 3
Complication: Famous
Motivation: Find Safety
SKILLS: Athletics 3, 
Entertainment 2, Inspiration 2, 
Manipulation 2, Tactics* 2, 
First Aid 1, Intimidation 1, 
Melee Combat 1, Psychology* 1, 
Scavenging 1, Sleight of Hand 1, 
Stealth 1, Survival 1, 
Unarmed Combat 1
WEAPONS: Fists 1d3+3
Baseball Bat 4+1d6 (100%); 
Hunting Knife 2+2d3;
EQUIPMENT: Flashlight; 
Survival Kit (Tent, Sleeping Bag); 
2 Rations; 
SCHOOL 
TEACHER
21020
WP 10 RP 6 DMM 0 DMR 0
INIT 1 ENC 6 PT 3 BP 6
Complication: Loss
Motivation: Find Safety
SKILLS: Research 3, 
General Knowledge 2, 
Manipulation 2, Psychology* 2, 
Athletics 1, Entertainment 1, 
First Aid 1, Inspiration 1, 
Intimidation 1, Scavenging 1, 
Sleight of Hand 1, Stealth 1, 
Tinkerer 1
WEAPONS: Fists 1d3
Makeshift Club 1+1d3 (100%); 
Taser 1 (100%); 
EQUIPMENT: Flashlight; 
Survival Kit (Tent, Sleeping Bag); 
2 Rations; 
MERCENARY
01202
WP 14 RP 8 DMM 2 DMR 2 
INIT 3 ENC 8 PT 4 BP 4
Complication: Dark Secret
Motivation: Stay Alive
SKILLS: Athletics 2, 
Hunting 2, Melee Combat 2, 
Ranged Combat 2, Stealth 2, 
Survival 2, Tactics* 2, 
Unarmed Combat 2, 
Demolitions* 1, First Aid 1, 
Intimidation 1, Weaponsmith* 1
WEAPONS: Fists 1d3+4
Carbine [6] 5+1d6; 
Hunting Knife 2+2d3
EQUIPMENT: Walkie-Talkie; 
Survival Kit (Tent, Sleeping Bag); 
2 Rations; 
MAYOR
12020
WP 10 RP 6 DMM 0 DMR 0
INIT 2 ENC 6 PT 3 BP 6
Complication: Famous
Motivation: Build
SKILLS: Manipulation 3, 
Inspiration 3, Barter 2, 
Entertainment 2, General 
Knowledge 2, Intimidation 2, 
Tactics* 2, Psychology* 2, 
Stealth 1, Survival 1
WEAPONS: Fists 1d3
Makeshift Club 1+1d3 (100%); 
Taser 1 (100%); 
EQUIPMENT: Loudspeaker; 
Survival Kit (Tent, Sleeping Bag); 
2 Rations; 


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 16 ==========

28
STARTING LOAD-OUT
Each character picks both a Primary & 
Secondary weapon from Tables 10-
12. Any weapon requiring ammunition 
starts with 1d6 ammo. 
Each character also get a Survival Kit
containing a tent and sleeping bag, 
and 2 Rations, which is enough to 
keep them fed for 2 day. 
Additionally, each character may pick 
one item from Table 9: Equipment
list and one Incidental Item that 
provides no combat value, such as a 
compass, flashlight or lighter. 
Write of all this on your character 
sheet. If it's not written on the sheet, 
it isn’t in the game.
NOTE: A starting character may not 
take so much equipment that they 
exceed their Encumbrance limit. 
29
ITEM USE & UPKEEP CHECKS
The condition of each weapon or piece of equipment starts out in Pristine condition but over time, they will become 
Used, Worn, Damaged, and finally Broken, as detailed on Table 10: Item Condition. 
To ensure items remain in good working order, they will require some form of regular Upkeep Check. 
Normal use of equipment or weapons - such as spending a night in a tent or target practice with a pistol - causes no 
degradation or damage to the item being used. However, if an activity puts the item under duress, or if the character 
might not be able to pay enough attention to using the 
item correctly - such as firing a rifle during an intense 
and prolonged firefight, or having to urgently pull up a 
tent in the middle of the night - then they need to 
make an Upkeep Check on the item to prevent it 
taking damage and dropping a level of Condition. 
There are specific skills that can be used to attempt an 
Upkeep Check for various items - Vehicle Repair* 
for cars, Weaponsmith* for guns, Armorsmith* for 
armor, and Tinkerer for general equipment - and 
characters must have at least 1 level in that skill in 
order to perform an Upkeep Check. 
If the Upkeep Check is Successful then the item 
remains at the same Condition level. 
On a Failure, it drops one level of Condition. 
On a Wild Success or Moment of High Insight, 
the Condition improves by one level (up to a 
maximum of Used).
On a Dire Failure or Moment of Low Insight, the 
item is immediately Broken.
Players should keep track of the Condition of all of 
their items in the Weapons & Equipment section of 
their character sheet. 


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 17 ==========

30
No matter how many people were killed by the Dog 
Flu, there are more than enough remaining to 
make life difficult for anyone else around them.
Interacting with other survivors is an integral part of 
the game and although most interactions will come 
in the form of conversations between the players 
and the GM, certain mechanics can help define how 
PCs and NPCs interact.
FIRST IMPRESSIONS
Whenever characters encounter NPCs for the first 
time they will create a conscious or subconscious 
impression which can determine the course of their 
relationship. This is determined by the outcome of a 
First Impressions check.
MAKING A FIRST IMPRESSIONS CHECK
A First Impressions check uses Influence and 
any appropriate skill, such as Inspiration, 
Manipulation, or Psychology*, with the players 
Filling in the Gaps as to the specifics of their 
attempt and what they are saying.
A First Impressions uses Influence, 
Inspiration, Intimidation, or Manipulation, 
with the players Filling in the Gaps as to the 
specifics of their attempt and what they are saying.
Although First Impressions checks can be done 
per individual character, when a group is 
encountering an NPC for the first time they can 
elect to make a Group Check. 
If multiple characters encounter an NPC at the 
same time, they should make a First Impressions
Group check (see Group Checks on page 11) as 
the NPC will be weighing up the collective threat.
Success (9-13): The NPC has no strong feelings 
toward the player and there is a 0 CMod to future 
interactions.
Wild Success (14+): The player makes a 
favorable impression and receives a +1 CMod on 
future interactions.
Moment of High Insight (6+6): The player 
makes a favorable impression and receives a +2 
CMod on future interactions, plus an Insight Dice.
Failure (4-8): The player makes a bad impression 
and gets a -1 CMod to all future interactions.
Dire Failure (0-3): They make a terrible 
impression and come across as threatening or 
hostile, receiving a -2 CMod on all future 
interactions. Depending on the character's next 
move and demeanor, this may even initiate combat 
(see Combat on page 32).
Moment of Low Insight (1+1): They make a 
terrible impression and come across as threatening 
or hostile, receiving a -3 CMod on all future 
interactions, plus an Insight Dice.
Any Conditional Modifier that comes out of this 
check should be written in the Relationships
section on the character card, as it will influence 
future social interactions with that NPC, such as 
Negotiations and Sway skill checks.
GUT INSTINCTS
Similar to a First Impressions check to see how 
they came across to an NPC, characters can also 
make a Gut Instinct check to see what they pick 
up about an NPC. 
MAKING A GUT INSTINCT CHECK
This check uses the character's Perception 
Modifier (Reason AMod + Acumen AMod) by 
default, although they may substitute an 
appropriate skill such as Psychology*, Survival,
or Tactics* if it better fits the situation.
If they Fail this check, then they really get no read 
on this person.
If they are Successful, the GM should give the 
player some insight as to what their take is. Do they 
get a sense that this NPC be trusted? Does the NPC 
feel shifty? Are they acting like they have something 
to hide, or do they appear to have a truly open and 
inviting nature?
On a Dire Failure, perhaps the character becomes 
very taken with the NPC and are inclined to trust 
them. Perhaps they remind them of a lost family 
member or friend and on a Wild Success, perhaps 
they realize that nothing this character says should 
be taken lightly. 
Players would do well to remember that no matter 
the result of a check, appearances will often be 
deceiving, and they should act on what their 
character knows, rather than what they feel.
31
REWRITE NEGOTIATIONS
Although many situations are black and white, 
there will be times when individuals or groups 
may have a request or something to offer and 
will want to Negotiate some kind of 
settlement between the various parties. 
Negotiations allow for characters and NPCs 
to interact through a process of Gambits & 
Rebuttals, and are an Opposed Check. 
While the result uses a defined mechanic, 
there will typically be a lot of back and forth 
and this is a great opportunity for the group 
to Fill in the Gaps and role-play. 
MAKING A GAMBIT:
The side leading the negotiation makes a 
check for their opening Gambit by making an 
Influence, Barter, Entertainment, 
Inspiration, Intimidation, Manipulation 
or Psychology* check, depending on the 
situation, their approach, and the desired 
outcome.
If their approach Fails then their tactic or 
argument falls short in the eyes of their 
opponent who now gets a +1 CMod to their 
Rebuttal check. 
A Dire Failure means that their Gambit is 
not only unsuccessful but is either so weak or 
offensive that the other side doesn’t even feel 
compelled to respond, and negotiations are 
over. 
Depending on the initial posture of the 
Gambit, this could even lead to aggression or 
hostility. 
A Success means that the Gambit had the 
desired effect, and the other party is 
interested or intrigued, and there is a -1 CMod 
to their Rebuttal check.
A Wild Success means that the Gambit
resonated with the other side, who now have 
a -3 CMod to their Rebuttal. 
MAKING A REBUTTAL:
The other side now gets to make a Rebuttal
check which will determine how the 
Negotiations resolve themselves. 
A Rebuttal check uses Acumen or any skill that 
matches the tone of their response. This could 
be Barter, Inspiration, Intimidation, 
Manipulation, Psychology*, or Tactics*, all 
depending on the situation. 
If the character making the Rebuttal check 
Fails then they were unable to present a 
cogent argument and Negotiations are at an 
impasse 
On a Dire Failure, things fail so spectacularly 
that the Negotiation is over, and the 
situation could easily become hostile. 
If the character making the Rebuttal gets a 
Success, the other side are potentially 
swayed by their arguments and may well 
consider their counter. 
On a Wild Success, the side making the 
Rebuttal have made a truly compelling 
counteroffer and the other side is very likely 
to consider their proposal. 
If a Negotiation is a Failure, another 
attempt cannot be made until the situation 
changes. This might be in terms of what is 
being asked or offered, or because external 
events have altered the circumstances. 
NOTE: Just because one side wishes to 
Negotiate, the other side doesn’t have to 
agree to take part, and negotiations can easily 
fall apart before both sides are even at the 
table.
It is also possible for an NPC to negotiate with 
a player, and whilst a player still has agency 
and can decide on the negotiation outcome 
themselves, they should be prepared to Fill
in the Gaps as to how the exchange unfolds 
and work with the GM to further the narrative.


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 18 ==========

32
COMBAT ROUNDS
Combat takes place in Rounds lasting 3-6 
seconds. 
Each Round is broken up into three phases: 
Initiative, Actions and Resolution
1. INITIATIVE: Initiative decides the order 
in which combat unfolds and when each 
combatant acts. All participants make the 
following roll for Initiative at the beginning 
of each Round:
2d6  
+ Dexterity AMod 
+ Acumen AMod 
+ CMods 
The order of action follows the dice results 
from high to low. In a tie, PC’s always beat 
NPCs and if multiple characters tie then 
actions or attacks by those characters are 
considered simultaneous.
A player may choose to defer one or both of 
their actions until any point later in the 
round, as they may want the opportunity to 
wait and react to an unfolding situation. 
2. ACTIONS: Each combatant gets 2 
Actions per each Round and can choose 
from any of the 18 available actions 
described on page 34. They are:
Aim, Attack, Charge, Coordinate, Cover 
Fire, Defend, Dice Check, Distract, Fire 
From Cover, Grappling, Inspire, Move, 
Rapid Fire, Ready Weapon, Reposition, 
Sprint, Subdue and Take Cover.
A character can choose to take two different 
actions, or the same action twice. 
Additionally they may choose to defer one or 
both actions until later in the round, and so 
a character might Aim on their first action 
but wait to see how other players actions 
are resolved before using their second action 
later in the round to Attack.
3. RESOLUTION: Once all combatants 
have taken both of their Actions, dealt or 
received damage, and after any deferred or 
delayed actions or attacks have taken place 
(such as a grenade exploding, gas kicking in, 
or a character Repositioning) the Round is 
considered Resolved. The next Round then 
begins, starting with a new Initiative Roll. 
In the second and subsequent Rounds, any 
PC who wasn’t attacked and who didn’t 
attack anyone else in the previous Round 
may add +1 to their next Initiative Roll to 
reflect them having a cooler head than those 
in the heat of combat.
ATTACK ROLLS
An Attack Roll is a combat-related dice check. 
Like with other checks, a player must score 9 or 
above to be Successful.
Attack Rolls are calculated as follows:
2d6 + Physicality AMod for Melee attacks 
+ Dexterity AMod for Ranged attacks
+ SMod from relevant combat skills:
Melee Combat, Ranged Combat, 
Unarmed Combat, Demolitions*
+ CMods, at the discretion of the GM
+ Any Weapon-specific Modifiers
- DMM / DMR of opposing character 
INITIATIVE
Initiative is decided at the beginning of each 
combat round and sets the order in which 
participants in combat act, from highest to 
lowest.
Characters who weren’t attacked and didn’t 
attack in the previous round get a +1 Initiative 
CMod on their next roll. 
An Initiative check is:
2d6 + Initiative Modifier (Dexterity
 
    AMod + Acumen AMod + CMods)
33
INCAPACITATION
A character reaching 0 Resilience Points (RP) becomes 
Incapacitated for 4 Rounds - Physicality Modifier, with a 
minimum of one round. Their Stress Level also goes up by 1 
(see Stress on page 20). 
They take no more damage while Incapacitated unless they 
are specifically targeted. 
Upon regaining consciousness, they recover 1 RP immediately, 
and then an additional RP for each Combat Round that they 
are not actively engaged in combat, up to half of their 
maximum. 
When not in combat, a PC recovers 1 RP per hour and recovers 
all remaining RP with a good night’s rest.
MORTAL WOUNDS & DEATH
A character reaching 0 Wound Points is Mortally Wounded and 
they have 4 Rounds + Physicality Modifier until they succumb to 
their injuries and will Die. 
A Mortally Wounded character can be Stabilized with a 
Successful First Aid or Surgery* check, or by achieving a Wild 
Success on a Reason check. Once Stabilized, the character 
remains Incapacitated for 16 - Physicality AMod rounds (minimum 
1), then recovers consciousness with 1 WP and 1 RP. Their Stress 
Level also goes up by 1 (see Stress on page 20).
If this takes place whilst combat is still happening, then Stabilizing
a Mortally Wounded character uses both Combat Actions and the 
character making the attempt is unable to do anything else.
Only one attempt can be made per round to Stabilize a Mortally 
Wounded character.
Lasting Wounds: A character who survived being Mortally 
Wounded must make a successful Physicality check after regaining 
consciousness. On a Failure, they roll 2d6 on Table 12: Lasting 
Wounds and suffer the corresponding permanent injury. These 
wounds cannot be healed.
Wound Points naturally heal at a rate of 1 WP per day of rest.
NOTE: Combat in Distemper is brutal and unforgiving and the only 
way to prevent a character who wasn’t Stabilized from 
subsequently Dying, is if the player surrenders all of their Insight
Dice to the GM, (assuming that the player has at least one Insight 
Dice). If that happens, the character recovers 1 Wound Point and 1 
Resilience Point for each Insight Dice surrendered. 
SUBSISTENCE DAMAGE
PCs need to eat and drink at regular intervals in order to stay 
healthy. A character can go one day without eating or drinking 
with no adverse impact but on the second and subsequent 
days of not eating, they take Subsistence Damage at the 
rate of 1 Wound and Resilience Point per day. 
If they drop to 0 RP, they become too weak to move and 
become Incapacitated. At 0 WP, they must be fed to be 
Stabilized, otherwise they will Die, and any character that 
becomes Incapacitated through Subsistence Damage will 
need to be tended to and fed by another character until they 
heal enough to look after themselves. 
Assuming the players find a food source such as tinned goods, 
plants, fruit, vegetables, game, fowl, or fish, then they start to 
heal at a rate of 1 WP and 1 RP per day until they are at full 
health again. 
DAMAGE 
All attacks deal two types of damage that affect the victims 
Wound Point and Resilience Point totals. Resilience 
Point damage is generally inflicted at 50% of the Wound 
Point damage, rounded down.
Damage is weapon specific and has both a consistent and a 
random value, as shown for each weapon. 
FOR EXAMPLE: A Rifle does 5+1d6 Wound Points (WP) 
damage (for a total of 6 to 11 WP). As each attack also inflicts 
half the Wound Points as Resilience Point damage 
(rounded down), a successful Rifle attack doing 6 WP damage 
will also deal 3 RP damage. 
Melee weapons that inflict blunt force trauma (such as clubs or 
batons) may do the same amount of Resilience Point
Damage as Wound Point damage as a character is more 
likely to be bludgeoned into an Incapacitated state than 
killed outright. These weapons are marked with “100% RP” on 
the character sheet.
When using Melee Weapons, the Physicality AMod of the user 
is added to the damage done. As an example, the damage for 
a Baseball Bat is calculated as follows:
4 + 1d6 + PHY AMod
For any character fighting with just their fists, damage is 
calculated as follows:
1d3 + Physicality AMod + Unarmed Combat SMod
This means that a character with a Physicality of 1 and 
Unarmed Combat 1 would do 1d3 +1 +1 damage. 
See pages 28-29 for a complete list of weapons and their 
damage output. 
BREAKING POINT
Breaking Point: When a character's Stress Level reaches 5 
(see Stress on page 20), they hit their Breaking Point. The 
player rolls 2d6 and checks against Table 13: Breaking 
Point below to determine their character's reaction, which 
lasts 1d6 rounds. 
Once the reaction resolves, the character's Stress Level resets 
to 0.


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 19 ==========

34
COMBAT ACTIONS
AIM: +2 CMod to the next Attack on their target. The character’s next 
action must be an Attack, or the Aim is lost. 
ATTACK: Any attack, Unarmed or with a Ranged or Melee Weapon. If this 
is used for both actions against the same target brings a +1 CMod to the 
second use as the first attack helped them narrow in on their target
CHARGE: Using both actions, this allows a character to move twice, and 
end their action with either a Melee or an Unarmed Combat Attack
COORDINATE: A character making a Successful Tactics* check on a 
target they can clearly see provides a +2 CMod against that target to any 
character within Close range of the player character. On a Wild Success, 
this carries over to the next round as a +1 CMod
COVER FIRE: Characters doing this must make a separate Attack against 
each person/group and on a Success, the target gets a -2 CMod to their 
next action, skill or attribute check. 
DEFEND: This action adds +2 to the character’s Defensive Modifiers for 
the next incoming attack. This does not carry over into the next round.
DICE CHECK: An action can be used to make any Attribute or Skill check 
the character requires. 
DISTRACT: A Successful Intimidation, Psychology* or Tactics* check 
Distracts a target who then loses one of their next Combat Actions. 
FIRE FROM COVER: Characters who have taken cover can use both 
combat actions to come out of cover, fire their weapon, and return to cover 
without losing their Defensive Modifier on incoming attacks. 
GRAPPLING: A character can make an Opposed Check (see Opposed
Checks on page 11) using Unarmed Combat to pin an enemy in place. 
INSPIRE: On a successful Inspiration check, a target at Close range gains 
an additional Combat Action this round. A character can only be Inspired 
once per round. 
MOVE: Players can change Range bands (see Range on page 35).
RAPID FIRE: A character can make two rush shots per round. The first 
one suffers a -1 CMod, the second has a -3 CMod. If a character uses this 
for both Combat Actions, they suffer a -2 CMod and -4 CMod to those 
attacks. 
READY WEAPON: Unless a weapon is ready to use, it must be readied. 
This action must also be taken to reload or if a weapon becomes jammed.
REPOSITION: This action takes place at the end of a round in the 
Resolution phase, allowing a character to get situated for their next attack. 
SPRINT: Both actions can be used to Sprint and cover 3 times the normal 
amount of ground in a single move. At the end of the round, the character 
must make a successful Athletics check to avoid becoming Winded and 
needing to rest, losing one of the Combat Actions in the following round. 
SUBDUE: When attempting to Subdue another character, full Resilience 
Point damage is done but Wound Point damage is dealt at 50% (see 
Damage on page 33). Can only be used with Unarmed or Melee attacks.
TAKE COVER: Taking Cover gives a +2 Defensive Modifier for all attacks 
that take place against that character during that combat round. 
35
GETTING THE DROP
When the tension is rising between a group of 
characters and combat feels inevitable, one member 
of group may choose to act first, thereby Getting 
The Drop on everyone else. 
In game-terms, this amounts to the character taking 
one single action before anyone else rolls for 
Initiative. A character might Get the Drop by 
readying a weapon, moving into position, or sucker-
punching an opponent.
Only one combatant can Get The Drop and if 
multiple characters wish to attempt it then it is the 
character with the highest combined Dexterity and 
Acumen AMods who succeeds. If there is a tie and 
no clear winner, no one Gets The Drop and 
combat moves directly to the Initiative phase. 
It is also possible that the GM may decide that an 
NPC is going to try and Get The Drop on the 
players. If both the player and GM announce that 
they are planning on making this move, whichever 
character has the highest combined Dexterity and 
Acumen Modifiers wins.
NOTE: Any player who Gets The Drop
automatically incurs a -2 CMod on their next 
Initiative Roll, returning to normal on subsequent 
Initiative rolls.
CALLED SHOTS
Players with at least 1 level in Ranged, Melee, or 
Unarmed Combat can attempt a Called Shot by 
picking a specific part of an opponent’s body (such 
as their head or limb) or an object (such as the gun 
an opponent is carrying). 
Players must state they are taking a Called Shot
before making the check and Fill In The Gaps as 
what they are trying to achieve. They must also get 
a Wild Success or Moment of High Insight to 
connect, otherwise the attack misses completely. 
If the attack connects then it is up to the player and 
GM to decide what happens. A successful Called
Shot to the knee with a baton might cripple a 
pursuer or a Called Shot with a pistol might 
remotely detonate a container of gasoline.
REWRITE RANGE
Range in Distemper is handled in an abstract 
manner. Rather than absolute distances, each 
character’s position is relative to one another and is 
determined by range bands. 
The range bands are: Engaged
(1), Close (2), Medium (3), 
Long (4) and Distant (5). 
Each range band has a value in 
parentheses, and to move 
between bands it takes the 
cumulative total of the current 
range band, and the other bands 
that preceded it. 
This means it takes:
• 1 round to move from Engaged to Close
• 3 rounds to go from Close to Medium
• 6 rounds to go from Medium to Long
• 10 rounds to go from Long to Distant
• 15 rounds to go from Engaged to Distant.
ENGAGED: Close enough to wrestle, Engaged
combat gives a +1 CMod to Melee attacks and a -1 to 
Ranged attacks.
CLOSE: If characters can hear each other clearly 
then combat is at Close range. Melee combat can 
only take place at Close range with weapons that 
have a longer reach (such as a Spear) and suffers a -
1 CMod penalty. This is the ideal range for Pistols, 
although any type of Firearm gets a +1 Range CMod 
to Attacks at Close range.
MEDIUM: Far enough away that a pistol shot would 
be wasted without taking aim but close enough that a 
machine gun can still cover a room, Medium range 
gives no Modifiers to any attack and is perfect for 
carbines or a bow.
LONG: Too far for an accurate pistol shot but perfect 
for Rifles, being at Long range gives a -5 CMod to 
any pistol shot but a +1 to a Rifle shot. 
DISTANT: Far enough away that characters will not 
be able to hear each other clearly without radio 
equipment and may not even be able to see one 
another. Only someone with a high degree of skill with 
ranged weapons and the appropriate equipment (such 
as a hunting or sniper’s rifle) can strike a target at 
Distant range.


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 20 ==========

36
ARMOR
Whilst uncommon, armor can be a life saver. Not only does it 
make it harder for an attack to hit, but armor also lessens the 
amount of damage that gets through.
Each piece of armor has a Defensive Modifier (DM) that is 
applied to any attack attempts, reducing the likelihood that it 
will connect. If an attack does land, the damage is also 
reduced by the same Defensive Modifier.
Armor DMs are cumulative and stack, so a character wearing 
Riot Gear (-2 DM) and bearing a Riot Shield (-2 DM) gets a 
total of -4.
Armor degrades with each incoming blow and an Upkeep 
Check must be made after each combat engagement to 
prevent the item from dropping a level of condition (see 
Upkeep Checks on page 29).
UNARMED VS MELEE 
VS RANGED COMBAT
In terms of game mechanics, there is very little 
difference between Melee, Unarmed and Ranged 
Combat. Dice checks and damage modifiers remain 
the same and all are potentially lethal, and the 
most notable differences are in the details. 
• Unarmed attacks require no weapon and no 
ammunition, but do the lowest amount 
damage. A characters’ strength (reflected in 
their Physicality AMod) and training in 
martial arts or pugilism (reflected by levels 
of skill in Unarmed Combat) both improve 
the amount of damage done.
• Melee weapons are hand weapons such as 
clubs or knives. They often do less damage 
than a ranged weapon and require the 
attacker to be close to their target, but the 
damage dealt with Melee weapons is 
increased by a character’s Physicality AMod. 
Although they won’t run out of ammunition, 
Melee weapons can break with repeat use. 
• Ranged weapons can be the most lethal but 
not only do they require ammo in a world 
running short, some weapons have certain 
range restrictions (such as a sniper’s rifle). 
• When attempting to use a ranged weapon 
against a character who is fighting with 
someone else at Engaged range, the 
character gets an automatic -3 CMod to their 
ranged attack for the additional complexity. 
If they miss their original target, then they 
must get a Failure on a second Ranged 
Combat attack with a +3 CMod to avoid 
hitting the second combatant. This +3 
reflects how close the other combatant is to 
the target you were shooting at.
37
If you have made it this far then you have everything you need (in terms 
of game mechanics) to play the game. From creating a character to 
making and interpreting the dice checks that determine how successful 
your character is when performing certain tasks, to navigating (and 
hopefully surviving) combat, to interacting in social settings with other 
survivors. 
So, what comes next?
For GMs and groups wishing to just jump in, there is a Jumpstart 
available called Empty which guides a new group though the basics of 
the game. In this single scene encounter, a group of Pregens explore a 
gas station in search of an arc welder. It contains everything needed to 
play through this scene (and this rulebook is not required).
For groups wanting a more robust experience, there is a companion 
adventure to this quickstart, Chased, which is available at 
DistemperVerse.com. Chased is designed to help get a group oriented 
by walking the GM and players through the basics of the game via several 
encounters that highlight when and how to make dice checks, how to 
interpret the outcomes, and how to handle social and combat encounters. 
Built from a simple introductory point of finding something to eat, 
Chased can serve as either a one-shot adventure or can be the perfect 
jumping off point into a larger campaign as it provides a GM with 
locations and NPCs with which they can begin to populate their world. 
Chased comes with 6 Pregens, allowing a group to simply pick 
characters and start playing. Multiple other beginner and one-shot 
adventures, as well as comic book short stories that provide context and 
background information are available from DistemperVerse.com.
For GMs wanting to build their campaign from scratch, the Distemper 
Core Rulebook offers many suggestions on how to get started, with the 
obvious themes and drivers being the need to secure supplies and find 
safety. 
How and where those stories are told is up to the group but, as 
Distemper is set just a few sneezes from now, keeping the setting local 
and familiar can make it easy for GMs and players to quickly get engaged. 
Whilst many play for the escapism and fantastical element of RPGs and 
some want their stories to take place in a very different part of the 
country or world to where they live, there is a lot of value to having the 
game be set in a locale or environment that is familiar and resonates with 
the group. Having the players leverage their local knowledge of the area - 
with new threats and challenges being added by the GM - can add a 
different level of intimacy, familiarity, and enjoyment to the game.
Before starting a game play, the players and the GM should spend some 
time discussing the specifics of what they are hoping to get out of the 
game, with a focus on duration, content, and tone. 
Is the group looking for a one-shot adventure with a defined beginning 
and end that is played out during one, maybe two sessions, or is this the 
start of an open-ended, sandbox campaign that will unfold over months 
or possibly even years? 
Similarly, the group should discuss the tone of game and their level of 
comfort with content. At its core, Distemper is a game about survival in 
a broken, dark and dangerous world, but players should not be made to 
feel uncomfortable with the story or subject matter and the group should 
collectively decide if they are looking for a violent, combat heavy story of 
pillaging and conquest, or are they are more interested in role-playing as 
a member of a community trying to rebuild what they can of the society 
they lost, whilst facing overwhelming odds?
Once these topics have been settled, the players and GM should review 
the types of characters that they will be playing, the skills they will 
collectively bring, and, how the group knows each other (or how they will 
meet) and, lastly, where they are going to start the game.
Whichever way the group chooses to go, grab as many dice as you can 
find (virtual or real) and then double-check and see if you have some 
more. See if you have any that are a cool color. 
It's time to get started.


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 21 ==========

OUTCOMES
0-3
4-8
9-13
14+
1+1
6+6
Dire Failure
Failure
Success
Wild Success
Moment of Low Insight
Moment of High Insight
DICE CHECKS
All attribute or skill checks require a total 
score of 9 or above to be successful and take 
the format: 
2d6 + Attribute Modifier (AMod)
Add their Reason, Acumen,
Physicality, Influence or
Dexterity AMod, for a range
of -2 to +4
+ Skill (SMod)
Add relevant SMods from Skills
for a range of -3 to +3
+ Conditional Modifier (CMod)
For any external influences or
unexpected factors, ranging
from -5 to +5, at the GM’s
discretion
MODIFIERS 
Each Dice Check can have up to three possible 
Modifiers that are added to the final total.
Attribute Modifiers (AMods): All characters have 5 
RAPID 
Range 
attributes 
(Reason, Acumen, 
Physicality, Influence, & Dexterity) ranging from -2 
(Diminished) to +4 (Human Peak). This number is the 
Attribute Modifier (or AMod), that is added to any 
check that uses that Attribute. 
Skill Modifiers (SMods): Each character has a 
variety of skills, with a Skill Modifier (or SMod), 
ranging from -3 to +4, that is added to any check 
using that skill. 
Note: Some skills require some degree of specialized 
training and attempting to use one without the training 
incurs a -3 SMod. These skills are marked with a *.
Conditional Modifiers (CMods): Any dice roll can 
have a Conditional Modifier (or CMod) ranging from 
-5 to +5 which is added at the GM’s discretion to 
reflect external factors that can influence the dice 
check.
FILLING IN THE GAPS 
Having the players Fill in the Gaps about what 
they are seeing or doing can help the GM 
ensure that the whole group are contributing to 
the narrative.
The GM may call upon players to provide 
details about what they are seeing or doing that 
flesh out the scene or actions for the rest of the 
group.
MOMENTS OF INSIGHT 
A roll of double one or double six (a score of 2 
or 12) is either a Moment of Low or High 
Insight wherein the task went so flawlessly 
well or so disastrously awry that the character 
learned an important lesson about what not to 
do or gained a deep understand of how and 
why they were successful. 
Regardless of any AMod, SMod or CMods 
being applied to the roll, a double one is always 
treated as a Dire Failure and a double six is 
always treated as a Wild Success. 
As a result of this roll, they receive an Insight 
Dice that can be used to affect the outcome of 
future dice checks. 
INSIGHT DICE
Insight Dice allow players to affect dice rolls or 
other elements of gameplay in their favor.
Each player starts the game with 2 Insight 
Dice and receives an additional Insight Dice
each time they roll a double one or a double 
six and have a Moment of Insight.
Common uses for Insight Dice are:
• Adding an additional dice before 
making a check, for a 3d6 dice pool
• Re-rolling one or both of the original 
dice 
• A +3 Conditional Modifier
• ‘Bending reality’ to allowing a player to 
find an unexpected clue or suddenly 
have a missing piece of required 
equipment 
• Instead of Dying, a character can 
surrender all of their Insight Dice in 
exchange for recovering 1 Wound Point 
and 1 Resilience Point for each dice 
surrendered. Players cannot choose 
how many dice to use in this method, 
this costs all of their Insight Dice
There is no limit to how many Insight Dice a 
player can have and once used, Insight Dice
are surrendered back to the GM. 
Although Insight Dice can be used by a player 
to perform an act that helps another player, 
they are non-transferable and cannot be given 
directly to another character.
GROUP CHECKS 
A group of players may elect to make a Group 
Check and pool their abilities so long as they 
are using the same Attribute or Skill.
The player with the highest individual Attribute 
or Skill makes a dice check, factoring in AMods 
and SMods from the group members, and 
adding a +1 CMod for each person 
contributing. Insight Dice cannot be used 
during Group Checks.
SKILL LIST
Animal Handling [Sway] (INF)
Armorsmith* [Mechanic] (DEX)
Athletics [Innate] (PHY)
Barter [Sway] (ACU)
Demolitions* [Combat] (PHY)
Entertainment [Sway] (INF)
Farming [Knowledge] (ACU)
First Aid [Medicine] (RSN)
General Knowledge [Knowledge] (RSN)
Hunting [Innate] (PHY)
Inspiration [Sway] (INF)
Intimidation [Sway] (INF)
Lock-Picking* [Criminal] (ACU)
Manipulation [Sway] (INF)
Melee Combat [Combat] (PHY)
Navigation [Innate] (ACU)
Pharmacology* [Medicine] (RSN)
Psychology* [Knowledge] (INF)
Ranged Combat [Combat] (DEX)
Research [Knowledge] (RSN)
Scavenging [Innate] (ACU)
Sleight of Hand [Criminal] (DEX)
Stealth [Criminal] (DEX)
Surgery* [Medicine] (RSN)
Survival [Innate] (ACU)
Tactics* [Knowledge] (RSN)
Tinkerer [Mechanic] (DEX)
Unarmed Combat [Combat] (PHY)
Vehicle Repair* [Mechanic] (DEX)
Weaponsmith* [Mechanic] (DEX)
OPPOSED CHECKS 
If two characters are working against one 
another (during a chase, for example), an 
Opposed Check is used. 
This starts with both characters making an 
initiative check to see who goes first. 
The initiative winner then makes a dice check 
using the relevant attribute or skill and the 
other player makes a responding check. 
Unlike most other dice checks in Distemper, 
an Opposed Check relies purely on one side 
beating the score of the other. If there is no 
clear winner, the Opposed Check starts over.
Moments of Insight still apply, and a 
character who gets a Moment of Low Insight
(a double one) will automatically lose (unless 
their opponent also gets a Moment of Low 
Insight) and anyone getting a Moment of 
High Insight will automatically win, unless 
their opponent gets the same dice roll, in 
which case Initiative is re-rolled.
Mod
score
order
Name
INITIATIVE is decided at the beginning of each 
combat round and sets the order in which 
participants in combat act, from highest to lowest.
An INITIATIVE CHECK is:
2d6  + Dexterity AMod
 
+ Acumen AMod
 
+ Perception SMod
A form-fillable PDF version of this 
INITIATIVE TRACKER is available from 
www.distemperverse.com/resources
ITEM UPKEEP
Characters will need to regularly maintain their 
weapons & equipment to ensure they continue 
to work as intended. 
After prolonged or careless use of an item, a 
character with at least 1 level in Tinkerer, 
Weaponsmith*, Armorsmith*, or Vehicle 
Repair* can make an Upkeep Check. On a 
Failure, the item drops a level of Condition (see 
page 29).
COMBAT ROUNDS
Combat Rounds last 3-6 seconds, and consist of 
3 phases: Initiative, Actions, Resolution.
1. Initiative: At the beginning of each round, all 
participants make an Initiative check (2d6+Init 
Mod) to determine the order in which they act, 
going from the highest to the lowest score, with 
draws taking place simultaneously. Anyone who 
was neither attacked nor attacked someone else 
gets a +1 to their next Initiative roll.
2. Actions: Each combatant gets two Combat 
Actions per round and may take the same action 
twice or choose two different actions. 
3. Resolution: Certain actions, weapons, or 
effects will be resolved in this phase after all 
characters have taken their actions and before 
the round is complete. 
At the end of the Resolution phase, combat 
cycles to a new round and a fresh Initiative 
check. 
COMBAT ATTACKS
Attack rolls, like all other checks, requires a 
score of 9 or above to be successful. 
Attack rolls take the format: 
2d6 + AMod 
Physicality for Melee & Unarmed
Dexterity for Ranged
+ SMod
Melee Combat, Ranged Combat,
Unarmed Combat, or Demolitions* 
+ CMod as determined by the GM
- Target’s Ranged or Melee
Defensive Modifier
Roll
2:
3:
4:
5:
6:
7:
8:
9:
10:
11:
12:
Effect
Babbling: PC is nonsensical for 1d3 rounds
Loose Grip: PC drops whatever are holding 
and must spend an action picking it up
Twitchy: Unable to control their spasms, -2 
CMod on all attacks for 1d3 rounds
Rattled: Unable to focus properly, -2 on next 
Initiative Roll
Frozen: Character loses both of their actions 
for 1d3 rounds
Escape: Character disengages and spends 
1d3 rounds trying to get out of combat
Intimidated: Character receives a -2 CMod 
on attacks for the next 1d3 rounds
Scream: Character spends the next 1d3 
rounds screaming, oblivious to everything
Tunnel vision: Character's can only focus 
the most immediate threat for 1d3 rounds
Berserk: The character attacks the NPC 
closest to them
Faints: Character falls to the ground 
unconscious for 1d3 rounds
PANIC
If a character is reduced to half their original 
Resilience Point total then they must make a 
Successful, Inspiration, Psychology* or 
Reason check to retain their self-control or they 
have Panicked. 
Players should roll 2d6 and check against the 
table below for the effect:
 COMBAT ACTIONS
AIM: +2 CMod on the next attack against one 
target. The next action must be an Attack.
ATTACK: Make a Combat Roll
CHARGE: Uses both actions but lets a 
character make 2 moves and end in a Melee 
or Unarmed attack
COORDINATE: On a successful Tactics* 
check, this character can provide allies at 
Close range with a +2 CMod against a specific 
target
COVER FIRE: A Success inflicts a -2 CMod 
on the target’s next action.
DEFEND: +2 to Defensive Modifiers
DICE CHECK: Any Attribute or Skill check
DISTRACT: A Successful Intimidation, 
Tactics* or Psychology* check causes the 
target to lose their next action
FIRE FROM COVER: Uses both actions to 
come out of cover, fire, and return to cover
GRAPPLING: An Opposed check to pin a 
target in place
INSPIRE: A Successful Inspiration check 
gives a target at close range an additional 
Combat Action
MOVE: Change Range bands
RAPID FIRE: Can make two shots per action, 
but the first incurs a -1 CMod and the second 
a -3 CMod. If used for both actions, it incurs -2 
and -4 CMods 
READY WEAPON: Prepares a weapon for 
use or clears a jammed weapon. 
REPOSITION: Can move during the 
Resolution phase
SPRINT: Can cover 3 times the usual amount 
of ground. Requires an Athletics check or lose 
one of the Combat Actions in the next round
SUBDUE: Can attack and cause 50% of the 
usual Wound Point damage but 100% of 
Resilience Point damage 
TAKE COVER: +2 Defensive Modifier against 
all incoming attacks during that round. on next 
attack
 FIRST IMPRESSIONS
Characters meeting NPCs for the first time 
should see how they are being perceived by the 
NPC by making either an Influence, 
Inspiration, Intimidation, or Tactics* check 
and Fill in the Gaps as to the specifics of what 
they are doing. 
If multiple characters encounter him at the 
same time, they should make a Group First 
Impression check.
GUT INSTINCTS
Characters can also see what their Gut
Instinct about an NPC is by making a 
Psychology*, Survival, Tactics*, or Acumen
check. 
If they are successful, the GM should give the 
player some insight as to what their take is. If 
they fail, the GM may mislead them.
 NEGOTIATIONS
Negotiations are broken into Gambits & 
Rebuttals. 
A character or NPC states their offer or request 
by making an Influence, Barter, Charm, 
Deception, Entertainment, Inspiration, or 
Intimidation check, and Filling In the Gaps. 
If the other side agrees to the request or 
demand, the Negotiation is over.
On a Dire Failure, the Negotiation
immediately falls apart. 
On a Failure, the other side gets a +1 CMod on 
their Rebuttal.
On a Success, there is a -1 CMod to any 
Rebuttal.
On a Wild Success there is a -3 CMod to any 
Rebuttal. 
Once the other side has heard the opening 
Gambit out, they can offer their Rebuttal by 
making an Acumen, Barter, Perception or 
Survival check.
On a Dire Failure or Failure, there is no 
common ground but there is potential to have 
created an enormous amount of bad feeling.
On a Success or Wild Success, their counter 
is met favorably and a deal or agreement can 
be reached.
NPCs can attempt to Negotiate with characters 
and although the players always have agency 
over what they will accept or agree to, they will 
need to Fill In The Gaps about what they are 
thinking or saying if they decide not to hold to 
the terms of the Negotiation. 


========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 22 ==========



========== QUICKSTART PHYSICAL PAGE 23 ==========

XSG0103
TRUST NO ONE. 
DON'T STOP MOVING.
DON'T CLOSE YOUR EYES. 
DON'T LET THEM CATCH YOU SLIPPING.
THE BIGGEST THREAT IS OTHER PEOPLE.
DISTEMPER is a post-apocalyptic tabletop roleplaying game set one 
year after a deadly mutation of ‘canine distemper’, transmitted by 
Man’s Best Friend has wiped out 90% of humanity. 
Groups of 3-6 people will take on the roles of a survivors who must navigate a
 harsh and fractured world to stay alive. Food, water, and shelter Food, water, and shelter
 are the most basic needs, but making it through the day often requires risking it all. 
Will you keep moving, recruit allies, or try to rebuild? Whatever you choose, desperate 
people and harsh conditions will make every decision a matter of life and death.
Maybe you will recruit NPCs to you cause and take control of an area or territory.
Maybe you will rebuild. Maybe you will become warlords or start you own religious sect. 
Whatever you choose, you will have to be prepared to fight to keep it.
DISTEMPER is grounded in realism, with no zombies, mutants, or aliens to contend with. 
The game world is a dangerous place, and players must be prepared to fight to survive. 
With only their wits, skills, and a handful of dice, they must tell collaborative stories of 
survival, betrayal, and redemption in a world where every move may be their last.
Grab some dice, some friends, and prepare to tell collaborative stories in a 
harsh and fractured world where every move may be your last. 
